Jordan Spieth Absorbs ‘a Tough One’ With Dignity - The New York Times
AUGUSTA, Ga. — “More important than golf,” Jordan Spieth said Sunday night as a preamble to publicly congratulating the new Masters champion, Danny Willett. And with those words, Spieth showed that he would live to laugh about his Masters meltdown. Maybe not Monday, as the shock was wearing off and reality setting in of the three-hole stretch in which he gave back six strokes to swing open the door for Willett to waltz through. Only a few minutes before saying the words, Spieth had draped the green jacket around the shoulders of Willett, who earned the title by matching the low round of the day, a five-under 67, to finish three strokes ahead of Spieth and Lee Westwood, at five-under 283. Only a few minutes before, Spieth had surrendered his jacket to an Augusta National member for safekeeping in the locker that Spieth shares with Arnold Palmer in the room in the Augusta National clubhouse reserved for past champions. His face when he handed the garment over called to mind a young child returning to the original owners a lost puppy he had found and with which he had formed an instant attachment. The trophy presentation in Butler Cabin was hard to watch. Imagine if Cam Newton had been forced to present the Vince Lombardi Trophy to Peyton Manning as soon as this year’s Super Bowl was over. Spieth wasn’t even afforded a cooling-off period to pilot his turbulent emotions to cruising altitude. No wonder he looked more wooden than the stately pines outside. He then had to repeat the jacket ceremony on the 18th green. Spieth, 22, stopped to speak to reporters after the presentations and dissected his performance as if he had stepped outside his body, with the dispassion of a television analyst. A few of the talking heads seemed outwardly more emotional about the well-liked Spieth’s collapse than the shellshocked Spieth, who said, “It’s a tough one.” After playing Augusta’s front side in four under to build his lead to five strokes with nine holes to play, Spieth made bogeys on Nos. 10 and 11 but did not panic. He had devoted the first 63 holes to building a cushion to absorb any mistake or two he might make in the stretch. But then came the 9-iron tee shot at the par-3 12th. It was the right club, Spieth said, but he made the wrong swing. While standing over the ball, Spieth decided to hit a fade instead of a draw, even though he had hit a fade in 2014 that landed in the water hazard known as Rae’s Creek. Proving that no good comes of doing the same thing and expecting different results, Spieth’s ball hit the bank and rolled into the water. He chunked his next shot, and it also ended up wet. Soon after, Willett was putting the finishing touches on his Masters-piece, which included a closing nine of three-under 33 (to Spieth’s 41). Spieth rebounded with birdies on two of the next three holes, but he could not quite make up the ground he had lost. “There is no give-up in us,” Spieth said, using the plural in a nod to his caddie, Michael Greller. “We tried, but it was just one bad swing.” In a week when he made three double bogeys to go with the “other” at No. 12 on Sunday, it is a testament to Spieth’s fortitude and his putting that he was in contention at all. “I had my B-minus game tee to green, and I made up for it around the greens with my putter,” Spieth said, adding, “I hit some really good irons, but for the most part, it was my ability to map out the course, my putting and my short game that pretty much had us in the lead.” Spieth began the day with a shot at joining Jack Nicklaus, Nick Faldo and Tiger Woods in the fraternity of players to have successfully defended a Masters title. He ended it as the newest member in a club that includes Ed Sneed, who bogeyed the last three holes in the 1979 tournament and then lost in a playoff to Fuzzy Zoeller; Greg Norman, who frittered away a six-stroke lead in 1996; and Rory McIlroy, who was four ahead of the field at the start of the final round in 2011 and collapsed on the back nine on his way to an 80. “Big picture,” Spieth said, “this one will hurt.” Big picture, Sunday’s result demonstrated that the game, in the absence of the injured Woods, has been infused with new blood, even if some of it darkened Augusta National’s lush green layout in the final round. Of the top 14 finishers, seven, including Spieth and the 28-year-old Willett, are younger than 29. (The others were Matthew Fitzpatrick of England, Hideki Matsuyama of Japan, Daniel Berger of the United States, McIlroy of Northern Ireland, and top-ranked Jason Day of Australia.) The kids are all right. Bryson DeChambeau, who won low amateur honors in his last tournament before he turned pro, shrugged off bad swings, saying they gave him an opportunity “to show my character and my grace.” Spieth showed what he is made of while answering questions less than an hour after his dreams of a repeat had been dashed. “Obviously happy for Danny,” he said. Alluding to the fact that Willett became a first-time father on March 30, Spieth said, “More important than golf, he’s had a lot of really cool things happen in his life.” It takes grace to see the big picture so soon after having to sit through a trophy ceremony and watch someone else have his photograph taken in the green jacket. Spieth’s ball-striking was off all week, but his character emerged unscathed, which bodes well for him in the future.