Welcome, Visitors. Squeeze Right In. - The New York Times
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  Ramon Sessions had already endured a long trip with the Washington Wizards before the visiting locker room at Sleep Train Arena ate his shoe. Sleep Train Arena, a big barn that has been the home of the Sacramento Kings since 1988, albeit under a rotating cast of names, has long been one of the N.B.A.’s more antiquated facilities. But ahead of the Kings’ move into a fancy new downtown arena next season, a stream of opponents have come through in recent weeks to bid farewell to the old building — and to the visiting locker room, which has all the architectural charm of a rock quarry and seems only slightly larger than a mailbox. “Terrible,” said Sessions, a guard who once played for the Kings. “And they redid it a couple years ago. It actually used to be worse.” For Sessions, his problems started last month after the Wizards arrived for a game against the Kings. He found his locker (small), removed his dress shoes (expensive) and tried to set them atop his stall, believing the surface was flat. He was mistaken. His right shoe fell off the ledge. It got lodged behind his locker. A team trainer had to attach a coat hanger to a long piece of string to fish it out. It was all very complicated. And then the Wizards lost the game. Neither Sessions nor his teammates sounded broken up about leaving Sleep Train Arena for the final time. “Hopefully, the new locker room will be better,” Sessions said. The N.B.A. regulates stuff as much as the Federal Reserve. Each playing surface must measure 94 feet by 50 feet. A traveling violation in San Antonio is the same as a traveling violation in Cleveland. Quarters are 12 minutes long. In other words, players generally know what to expect once they step onto the court. But visiting locker rooms remain one of the great variables with divergent setups across the league. Size, furnishings, urinal access — it all depends on the city. Players and coaches have their favorites, which tend to be in newer arenas like Barclays Center, where the Nets play their home games and where the league had requirements in place. So there is optimism among opposing teams about what awaits them at Golden 1 Center, the Kings’ new arena, which is scheduled to open in October. On a recent tour of the Golden 1 Center construction site, a team official pointed out the framework for the new visiting locker room, which will be rich in amenities — and pretty much the opposite of the visiting locker room at the kitschy old arena. “You just want space,” said Garrett Temple, a guard with the Wizards. “I have a little exercise routine that I do to get my body loose. In bigger locker rooms, you usually have a little more room to do that. In smaller locker rooms, you have to avoid rolling over someone’s foot.” Teams spend a lot of time in visiting locker rooms before games, drawing solace from routine. Players eat and stretch. Coaches meet and review film. Ron Adams, an assistant with the Golden State Warriors, cited the importance of coaches and players having separate areas — and while most locker rooms do, some have sections that bleed into each other. “The players have a group dynamic unto themselves,” Adams said, “and they need to be left alone.” Adams mentioned Staples Center, the shared home of the Lakers and the Clippers, as having one of the league’s most inadequate visiting locker rooms: narrow and cramped. “That’s a brutal locker room,” Adams said. “If we’re talking about brutality, I’m going to tell you that Sacramento’s locker room is better than that locker room.” There appears to be some debate about whether consigning an opponent to a dingy locker room gives the home team a competitive advantage. Kevin Seraphin, a reserve forward with the Knicks, said the last thing he wanted was for an opponent to come to Madison Square Garden and be overly comfortable. (The Knicks, of course, need every advantage.) “I want them to be in a terrible situation,” Seraphin said. That type of thinking seemed to work for the Lakers last month when they defeated the Warriors at Staples Center. After the game, Adams approached an official from the Lakers and asked whether the team planned to make any improvements to the locker room. “He basically said, ‘That’s pretty far down our list of priorities,’ ”Adams recalled. Then again, the Lakers have not exactly made a habit of crushing teams at home this season. And in a twist, the Warriors actually house their opponents in one of the more expansive visiting locker rooms in the league. Perhaps the bigger danger is getting lulled into a spalike trance before games. Teams might be better off playing angry. “Sometimes you get too relaxed,” said Jared Dudley, a swingman for the Wizards. “If that chair is too cozy, you need to watch yourself.” The chairs, according to a highly unscientific survey of coaches and players across the league, are never too cozy in the visiting locker rooms at two arenas in particular: the Palace of Auburn Hills, where the Detroit Pistons play their home games, and Sleep Train Arena. Several players did not see the point in parsing the differences. “They’re both awful,” said Drew Gooden, a forward with the Wizards. The visiting locker room at the Palace is a glorified broom closet. But the slow, steady expansion of coaching and training staffs over the years has only made the space feel more confined. Whenever the Warriors are in town, Adams said, it requires a coordinated effort for them to share the limited supply of shower stalls. “It’s not like you write it out on paper,” Adams said, “but there is a system that has been developed out of necessity.” That assumes the showers are operational. After the Wizards won a game at the Palace this season, the players discovered that there was no hot water, Dudley said. As payback, they were tempted to turn off the water on the Pistons when they made a subsequent trip to Washington. “At least we won, so we were happy,” the Wizards’ Temple said. “If you lose, you’re throwing a tantrum.” As for the last days of the visiting locker room at Sleep Train Arena, it will be remembered for its — how to put this delicately? — simplicity. For its small sign near the entrance that recommended a maximum occupancy of 16 in the section reserved for players, a notice that went unobserved for years. For its curiously large advertisement for Apollo Jets, a charter airline service. For its bank of 13 lockers along one wall, and for its two additional lockers that formed a strange little peninsula against an adjacent wall. One constant problem? Lockers so thin and tightly packed that they could not accommodate a matching number of chairs. “And we are not average-size human beings,” Temple said. When the Wizards visited last month, the two special lockers were reserved for Gooden and Nene Hilario, the team’s most senior players. Gooden was unimpressed. “I mean, look at this,” Gooden said, pointing to a small crawl space near his locker that was cluttered with old chairs and desks. “What is this?” The opposing team’s digs at the new arena will be a significant upgrade, but Sleep Train Arena has had its quirks and charms, and the visiting locker room has been an indelible part of the league for decades — even if it has been hidden (mercifully) from public view. Temple said he had always appreciated its proximity to the court. “It wasn’t a long walk,” he said. “You try to find the positives.”