Nationals Pound the Phillies for a Seventh Straight Win - The New York Times
Max Scherzer threw seven impressive innings and hit a two-run double on Saturday night, Bryce Harper hit a home run, and the Washington Nationals routed the Phillies, 8-1, in Philadelphia. The Nationals are off to a 9-1 start, the best in team history. They have won seven games in a row. Scherzer allowed one run and five hits and struck out seven. Harper connected in the fifth inning, sending a drive to right for his fifth homer. Harper, the reigning National League most valuable player, has hit a home run in his past five games in Philadelphia, dating to last year. The Phillies’ Aaron Nola gave up seven runs and seven hits in five innings. RANGERS 8, ORIOLES 4 Mitch Moreland’s go-ahead double off the right-field fence and Rougned Odor’s two-run single highlighted a six-run seventh inning as Texas defeated Baltimore in Arlington. Delino DeShields and Nomar Mazara each had three hits for the Rangers. RAYS 7, WHITE SOX 2 Brandon Guyer homered to end Tampa Bay’s scoreless drought, Brad Miller added a two-run shot, and the host Rays halted Chicago’s five-game winning streak. Desmond Jennings also hit his first home run of the year for Tampa Bay, which had managed only six runs in its four previous games. CUBS 6, ROCKIES 2 Jake Arrieta threw eight scoreless innings, and Chicago hit three home runs to beat visiting Colorado. Arrieta, the reigning National League Cy Young Award winner, struck out eight and allowed five hits in his home debut. Dexter Fowler hit a three-run homer in the seventh for the Cubs. ATHLETICS 5, ROYALS 3 Josh Reddick and Stephen Vogt homered to back a solid effort by Sonny Gray, and host Oakland ended a four-game skid by knocking off Kansas City. Gray pitched through trouble, going six innings to earn his first victory against the Royals in four starts. TIGERS 5, ASTROS 3 Jarrod Saltalamacchia hit a go-ahead two-run homer in the sixth inning, and Detroit rallied at Houston. The Tigers trailed, 3-0, after George Springer and Tyler White both homered off Justin Verlander in the first inning. Detroit scored a run in the second and cut the lead to one in the fifth when White was charged with an error after a throw broke through the webbing of his glove, allowing another run to score. REDS 9, CARDINALS 8 Brandon Phillips, Zack Cozart and Jay Bruce each had two run-scoring hits for visiting Cincinnati, which erased an early four-run deficit against the St. Louis ace Adam Wainwright. Stephen Piscotty had four R.B.I. for the Cardinals. RED SOX 4, BLUE JAYS 2 David Price rebounded from his rough start in Boston’s home opener with seven solid innings, Xander Bogaerts hit a three-run homer, and the Red Sox defeated visiting Toronto. Price gave up two runs and six hits, struck out nine and did not walk a batter. BRAVES 6, MARLINS 4 Nick Markakis drove in three runs with three hits, and visiting Atlanta won for the second consecutive night after losing its first nine games. The Braves had headed to Miami mired in their worst start since 1988. PIRATES 5, BREWERS 0 Andrew McCutchen hit his first home run of the season, Jon Niese combined with two relievers on a three-hitter, and host Pittsburgh blanked Milwaukee. McCutchen’s homer, a solo shot off the Brewers’ Taylor Jungmann in the fifth inning, increased the Pirates’ lead to 4-0; they had scored three runs in the fourth inning. TWINS 6, ANGELS 4 Oswaldo Arcia and Byung Ho Park homered in the eighth inning to lift Minnesota over Los Angeles in Minneapolis, giving the Twins their second consecutive comeback victory after they opened the season with nine straight defeats.