Role of Nurse Is Said to Be of Interest After Report on Doping - The New York Times
HOUSTON —  After a report by Al Jazeera in December linked Peyton Manning, the Philadelphia Phillies player Ryan Howard and other top athletes to performance-enhancing drugs, United States antidoping officials set out to investigate those claims with the help of Major League Baseball and the N.F.L. Among the many leads being pursued, according to an antidoping official with direct knowledge of the case, is one involving a nurse practitioner in Houston who had committed suicide two months before Al Jazeera’s documentary was broadcast. The official requested anonymity because the investigation is confidential. The United States Anti-Doping Agency has begun looking into the relationship between the nurse practitioner, Karen Lopez-Bartlett, and her fiancé, Charles Sly, the pharmacist at the center of the report, who spoke in detail about providing performance-enhancing drugs to several professional athletes. Ms. Lopez-Bartlett’s possible role highlights the unusual nature of the case. Ms. Lopez-Bartlett ran a holistic medicine clinic in a building that also houses a compounding pharmacy, where technicians mix ingredients to create personalized medicines to treat conditions including pain, impotency and fatigue. Investigators from the antidoping agency are trying to determine if her prescriptions ended up in the hands of Mr. Sly and any athletes and, if so, whether the medicines contained banned substances. In a brief phone conversation, Ms. Lopez-Bartlett’s brother, Romeo, declined to discuss his sister or Mr. Sly. Phone messages left for several other family members were not returned. Mr. Sly’s lawyer did not respond to several interview requests. “While it is not appropriate for us to comment on the specifics of an ongoing investigation, we do actively pursue — within our purview — any information or evidence we receive regarding performance-enhancing drug use in sport, and we encourage anyone to come forward who can assist us in our mission to protect the rights of clean athletes,” Ryan Madden, a spokesman for the antidoping agency, known as Usada, said in an email. After Al Jazeera’s report came out, Mr. Sly publicly recanted everything he had told an undercover reporter in the documentary. Mr. Manning, the Denver Broncos quarterback who announced his retirement in February, called the report’s allegation that his wife had received shipments of growth hormone “complete garbage” and “totally made up,” and threatened to sue the network. Mr. Howard, along with several other baseball and football players, also denied Mr. Sly’s allegations of performance-enhancing drug use. Major League Baseball and the N.F.L. have said they are investigating the claims, many of which Mr. Sly made to the undercover reporter, Liam Collins, a former top British runner working with the network and posing as an athlete trying to revive his career. Important aspects of what Mr. Sly told the reporter about some athletes have been corroborated, fueling antidoping officials’ belief that his claims were valid. Taylor Teagarden, a journeyman catcher who played eight games with the Chicago Cubs last season and who had been shown talking to Mr. Sly and Mr. Collins about taking steroids, was recently suspended for 80 games by Major League Baseball. Mr. Sly’s connection to Ms. Lopez-Bartlett is clear. In a statement to Al Jazeera disavowing the explosive comments he had made in the documentary, Mr. Sly said that he had spoken while he was distressed by her suicide, in October 2015 — five months after he had proposed to her. It remains unclear what knowledge Ms. Lopez-Bartlett had about banned substances and what athletes could or could not use. But according to transcripts of the undercover interviews conducted by Al Jazeera, Mr. Sly told Mr. Collins that Ms. Lopez-Bartlett had written prescriptions for him and that he had had access to her prescription pad. (Mr. Sly did not have the authority to write prescriptions.) Mr. Sly had keys to her clinic in Houston, which he visited with Mr. Collins. Ms. Lopez-Bartlett had killed herself several days before Mr. Collins began secretly interviewing Mr. Sly, though Mr. Sly did not mention her death during several hours of conversations, according to the transcripts. Mr. Sly told Mr. Collins that he and Ms. Lopez-Bartlett were engaged, according to the transcripts, but that he had misgivings about marriage because it would be a conflict for a husband or a wife to write prescriptions for a spouse. “She writes a lot of prescriptions,” Mr. Sly said, according to a recording of the conversation. “In the U.S., since I have all these deals with the pharmacies, that’s a conflict of interest. Big time. And we’re making good, good, good money.” Mr. Sly went on to say that it was easier to work with Ms. Lopez-Bartlett because he could tell her specifically how to get prescriptions filled. “If I can have her in front of me, I can tell her what to say,” he told Mr. Collins. “Or I can just communicate it on her behalf.” Mr. Sly and Ms. Lopez-Bartlett were an unusual pair. He was a peripatetic pharmacist from Indiana in his early 30s. Ms. Lopez-Bartlett, the daughter of a diplomat from Nicaragua, was in her 40s and the mother of two boys. Ms. Lopez-Bartlett obtained a bachelor’s degree in nursing from Hawaii Pacific University and a master’s degree as a family nurse practitioner from Texas A&M-Corpus Christi in 2009. She was popular with her patients, many of whom wrote testimonials to her on her memorial page, but she struggled with the death of her younger son, Tristan, 13, who had died in a skiing accident in Colorado in 2013. Ms. Lopez-Bartlett publicly mourned her son on his online memorial page, even suggesting that she might join him soon. Within a year of his death, she divorced her second husband, Christopher Deaton. “She became very disconnected from everything,” Mr. Deaton said in a telephone interview. In May of last year, Ms. Lopez-Bartlett opened the Villages Wellness & Longevity Center in the building owned by Village Compounding Pharmacy. Philip Pylant, who founded the compounding pharmacy decades ago and still runs the business, said he had spoken to Ms. Lopez-Bartlett before she moved in and she “seemed very legit.” Mr. Pylant said he met Mr. Sly in passing, though he knew that he and Ms. Lopez-Bartlett had become engaged. Mr. Pylant said that he had learned about Mr. Sly’s involvement in banned substances only after seeing Al Jazeera’s documentary. “I had forgotten the guy’s name because I only met him once or twice,” Mr. Pylant said. “We found out on the national news. She was a fine young lady and she was smart, but we didn’t know a whole lot about her.” According to the Harris County forensics unit, Ms. Lopez-Bartlett died on Oct. 21 by overdosing on phenobarbital and lorazepam, a sedative. She was 43.