Pint-Size Crystal Dunn Reaches New Heights With U.S. Soccer - The New York Times
In the 72nd minute of an exhibition game against England last month in Tampa, Fla., Crystal Dunn executed a sublime spin on the left side of the box, making her defender look as if she were clamped to the Raymond James Stadium grass. Two touches later, Dunn blasted the ball into the upper-right corner of the net, a finish that provided not just the game’s only score but also stirring testimony to Dunn’s hard-won emergence as a United States national team mainstay — and of the personal spin move she has managed since she felt the worst heartache of her soccer career. “I shot that ball with all my might,” said a smiling Dunn, who at 5 feet 1 inch is the smallest player on the women’s national team. “To me, it’s all about being fearless and playing freely.” It was one year ago Monday that Dunn, 23, of Rockville Centre on Long Island, got a phone call she will never forget. She was in Dulles International Airport with her teammates from the Washington Spirit of the National Women’s Soccer League. On the line was Jill Ellis, the national team’s coach, who told Dunn she would not go to the World Cup. It would have been Dunn’s first Cup, and the pinnacle of a young career that has included an N.C.A.A. championship at North Carolina and a Hermann Trophy, given to the nation’s best college player. But a horribly timed knee injury had cost Dunn valuable training time late in 2014, and she did not fully regain her form before the United States roster was trimmed to 23 players. Dunn was the last player cut. After Ellis’s call, tears came hard and fast, but so did Dunn’s psychological rebound. Although her fellow Americans captured the nation’s first World Cup in 16 years, Dunn had a productive summer, too, eventually being named the N.W.S.L.’s most valuable player. She led the league with 15 goals — no matter that she has spent most of her recent years playing defense or midfield. “It was really crushing for her not to make” the World Cup roster, the United States co-captain Becky Sauerbrunn said. “But you saw that great reaction from her in the N.W.S.L. She used that time to get better. She got confident, and that translated over to the national team, and she has kept that confidence. She’s played herself into a really great spot right now.” Ellis said: “A lot of it, for Crystal, hinges on the confidence piece. I think she’s in a good place mentally in terms of what she thinks she can add to this team.” Since rejoining the United States team in the fall for its so-called victory tour, Dunn has scored 12 goals in 18 games, five of them coming in a 10-0 rout of Puerto Rico in February. She has also reconfirmed her status as the team’s most versatile player. Having played as an outside back, an outside midfielder and a striker for the United States, and as an attacking midfielder for the Spirit, Dunn now finds herself having an effect at right wing with her speed and her high-energy game. “Nobody on the team comes close to her in quickness and explosiveness,” defender Julie Johnston said. As if to underscore Dunn’s flexibility, in Sunday’s 3-0 victory in an exhibition against Colombia, her principal role was back at striker. In her time at North Carolina, Dunn became the first woman to be named both the Atlantic Coast Conference’s defensive player of the year (2010 and 2012) and its offensive player of the year (2013). Still, Dunn is an Everywoman, and she embraces it. “It’s sad to say, but I’m 23 years old, and I’m still like, ‘Ah, I like this position; ah, I like that position,’ ” Dunn said. “But I think that’s the beauty in it. I’ve been known as a player who has basically played every position but keeper. I’ve been fortunate enough to be used as a kind of artillery person — getting thrown in wherever I’m needed.” Given Dunn’s prolific production — her eight goals in 2016 have her tied with Carli Lloyd and Alex Morgan for the team lead — it is hard to imagine that Ellis would consider taking her off the forward line. Johnston, perhaps Dunn’s closest friend on the team, faces off with Dunn all the time in training and has a deep appreciation for her offensive talent, with startling strength in her half-pint body and the fast-twitch gift to create instant separation from a defender. “We go at it constantly,” Johnston said ahead of Sunday’s game, in which Johnston had two goals. “She is so focused and driven. She’s a workhorse.” An ebullient presence who loves to sing, Dunn is also the team’s resident entertainer, her performances requiring little encouragement. “She dances 24/7,” Johnston said. Indeed, Dunn always seems to be swaying, moving, grooving. She loves to be in motion and to feel free, she said, and it is no different on the field, where she has worked hard to rein in her perfectionism and not pound on herself for every mistake. Dunn recalled a game at North Carolina in which she gave away the ball a few times early and spent much of the rest of the match all but running away from it, mortified at the prospect of another error. “I’m still hard on myself, but now I bounce back much faster,” Dunn said. “Soccer is not about having a perfect game. It’s about trying things and learning if it doesn’t work out and tweaking things to make your game better.” One year after she was told she had not made the national team roster, Dunn is a 61-inch wonder on the wing who seems like a lock to play in the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro in August. Do not make that suggestion to her, though. “I’m not thinking my name is stamped and that I’m ready to go to Rio,” Dunn said. “You have to keep performing as if every day is a tryout. You take nothing for granted.”