Rangers Surge to Defeat Penguins  - The New York Times
PITTSBURGH —  With a thrilling burst of goals, the Rangers defeated the Pittsburgh Penguins, 4-2, on Saturday to even their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series at one game apiece. Down by a game and a goal midway through Game 2, the Rangers scored all their goals in 8 minutes 1 second, a span straddling the second intermission. The binge included goals by Keith Yandle and Derick Brassard in an 18-second sequence in the second period. “We just put the puck in the net,” Brassard said. “In Game 1 we didn’t do it, and now we kind of found a way.” He added, “When you score that first goal, I think it gives us some energy and some emotion. It was a great effort.” Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist made 29 saves in his return after sitting out the final two periods of Wednesday’s Game 1 loss, which he left because he had been struck in the right eye by the stick of his teammate Marc Staal. On Saturday, Lundqvist, the N.H.L.’s active playoff wins leader, outplayed his counterpart, Jeff Zatkoff, who was solid in his N.H.L. postseason debut Wednesday while filling in for the injured Marc-Andre Fleury (concussion). “He’s our best player,” Rangers forward Chris Kreider said of Lundqvist. “He has been all year, and he played like it tonight.” Brassard added two assists, and Mats Zuccarello and Kreider also scored for the Rangers, who are scheduled to host Game 3 on Tuesday at Madison Square Garden. J. T. Miller, who played his youth hockey in the Pittsburgh area, had three assists for the Rangers. Phil Kessel had both goals for Pittsburgh, each a tap-in off a pretty passing sequence on a power play. But those goals — coming 3:21 into the second period and 5:42 into the third — were the only blemishes for Lundqvist, who played two days after being cleared by an eye specialist. “When you know there’s nothing wrong with the eye,” Lundqvist said, “you know you can just go out there and just push yourself.” Lundqvist said that there was no excuse for not being ready and that he felt good after he left the doctor’s office. “I was prepared for this game,” he said. Lundqvist extended his streak of consecutive Rangers playoff starts to 112. The Rangers’ four goals between Kessel’s tallies were more than they had managed in any of the last eight playoff games they had played against Pittsburgh over the previous three postseasons. The Rangers were trailing, 1-0, in the second period, with the Penguins generally carrying the play until a pivotal sequence of one exceptional shift from each of the Rangers’ four forward lines, beginning with the Eric Staal-Kevin Hayes-Jesper Fast unit. The Rangers drew a power play with a hooking penalty against Brian Dumoulin. The Rangers failed to score, but two minutes after the power play ended, Brassard won an offensive-zone face-off, and Miller corralled the puck and threw it toward the slot. The loose puck found a wide-open Yandle, who had plenty of net to shoot into to the right of Zatkoff at 12:38 of the second. Eighteen seconds later, Brassard gave the Rangers their first lead of the series, scoring his 18th career playoff goal and his eighth in 14 games against the Penguins over the past three postseasons. Brassard sped into the Pittsburgh zone, where he took a pass from Miller — a play that withstood a review to ensure he was onside — and beat Zatkoff with a forehand deke. Zuccarello made it 3-1 at 16:52 of the period off a cross-ice pass from Miller, and Kreider gave the Rangers a three-goal cushion 39 seconds into the third. “We were playing in their end and cycling the puck,” Brassard said. “Sometimes even if you don’t get scoring chances, at least if you are playing with the puck, you kind of feel good about yourself, and that’s our team. We found a way to come up big in the second period.” The Rangers, who are looking to eliminate the Penguins for the third consecutive season, played without the injured veteran defensemen Dan Girardi and Ryan McDonagh. They also lost Derek Stepan for the final eight minutes after he was checked into the boards by Ben Lovejoy. After the game, Stepan said he was fine and had been cleared by medical personnel after going through the league’s concussion protocol. Although the Penguins remained without Fleury (as well as their No. 2 goalie, Matt Murray), they welcomed back Evgeni Malkin, a two-time league scoring champion and the 2012 most valuable player. Malkin, who had not played since March 11 because of an upper-body injury, had one assist but no shots on goal.