Roger Federer, $731,000; Serena Williams, $495,000: The Pay Gap in Tennis - The New York Times
DANIEL ISLAND, S.C. —  With renewed scrutiny on the disparate compensation paid to male and female athletes after a wage discrimination lawsuit filed by the United States women’s soccer team, tennis has been cited as a leader in gender equality among major sports. But even in tennis, where men and women compete alongside one another at the same stadiums around the world, female players still earn significantly less than their male peers. Grand Slam tournaments and the handful of other top combined events that pay men and women equally remain the exceptions. Raymond Moore, the tournament director of the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, Calif., an equal prize money event, resigned last
 month after saying that WTA players were “lucky” to be able to “ride on the coattails of the men.” His comments led to conversations at subsequent tournaments about the financial realities for men and women in tennis. At the Volvo Car Open in Charleston, S.C., last week, several top players pointed out that the discussion of equal pay often distorts the distinct advantage male players still have in annual compensation. “The facts were not put on the table; the fact is we don’t earn equal prize money,” said Andrea Petkovic, a German player ranked 30th. “It’s not true. We only earn it in the Grand Slams and a few other tournaments, but men earn more than we do. I think it was discussed in the wrong manner, and that was very sad to see.” Although men and women are compensated more comparably in tennis than in any other major sport, the annual prize money paid to the top 100 earners on the WTA and ATP Tours roughly matches the general pay gap in American workplaces, with female tennis players earning 80 cents on each dollar men earn. The median pay gap between a woman in the top 100 and her opposite number on the men’s tour is $120,624. “I think that sometimes we just hope that those problems are in the past, and that we have come much further,” Petkovic said. “But it’s good to be confronted with the thoughts of men that still think that way, and it’s maybe nice for us to have discussions with them and to explain our point of view. “I just wish that we would be a leader, that it wouldn’t matter about who is more popular, who is this or that. We, as a sport, could stand for something more than equal prize money — we’d stand for community and sportsmanship.” Billie Jean King, who pushed for equality as the women’s professional game developed, has remained an advocate for women’s issues in sports and many other areas. “We have a chance to continue to lead,” King said of tennis. “To have equal prize money in the majors sends a message. It’s not about the money, it’s about the message.” That message shines brightest under the sport’s biggest spotlights, at the four Grand Slam events, where men and women are paid equally. The United States Open became the first Grand Slam event to offer equal pay, in 1973, and Wimbledon the last, in 2007. But at other large combined ATP-WTA tournaments, where the men and women are sold together under one ticket, the prize money disparity can be stark. The Western & Southern Open in Mason, Ohio, the biggest event in the weeks before the United States Open, attracts dazzling constellations of top men’s and women’s stars each year to the fourth-largest tennis tournament in the country. The tournament, in which the United States Tennis Association owns a majority stake, pays the women only 63 cents on the dollar as compared with the men. Last year, Roger Federer received $731,000 for defending his title at the tournament, while Serena Williams received $495,000 for defending hers hours later. Organizers cite a technicality in the WTA’s structure to justify the pay differential. The tournament is one of nine Masters 1000 events, the top tier on the ATP Tour. But the top tier of the WTA Tour is four Premier Mandatory events, which include tournaments in Miami, Madrid and Indian Wells, where women can expect equal compensation to men. The Ohio event sits in the next tier, the Premier 5. Women are also paid less than men at similar Premier 5 events in Canada and Rome, which are held in conjunction with men’s tournaments. (At all tour events outside the Grand Slams, men and women play best-of-three-set matches.) Many WTA-only events, including the one now known as the Volvo Car Open, have flourished. Attendance here consistently dwarfs lower-tier ATP events nearby in Atlanta and Winston-Salem, N.C., and it has drawn crowds similar to, or ahead of, the ones at the comparable ATP event in Washington, which added a lower-tier WTA field in 2012. But the total men’s purse in Washington is $1,877,705, while the Charleston purse was about $753,000. “There’s no question that we want to lessen that gap — it’s our commitment to the players,” said Bob Moran, the Volvo Car Open’s tournament director. There are occasional combined events at which a higher-tier WTA event pays a larger purse than its lower-tier ATP counterpart. At the China Open, held in Beijing in October, the men’s champion earns 67 percent of the pay earned by the women’s champion. But the disparity is steeper at tournaments in which the ATP event is of a higher designation. In Rio de Janeiro in February, the men’s champion, Pablo Cuevas, won $303,300, more than seven times the $43,000 paid to the women’s champion, Francesca Schiavone. The pay gap extends all the way down the ladder on the ATP and WTA tours. According to a 2014 study by the International Tennis Federation that analyzed the average costs for playing professional tennis and the prize money from the previous year, 336 male players could earn enough to cover average expenses, while only 253 women could. Prize money is generated from each tournament’s sponsors, television rights deals, ticket sales and other on-site concessions. The total revenue of the ATP and WTA tours has fluctuated, with a gap of $2.6 million in 2008 giving way to a men’s advantage of $37.4 million in 2014. To capitalize on the popularity of superstars like Federer, Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal, the ATP Tour in recent years has gained significant increases in prize money, and those increases have benefited women in equal-pay events. That does not please everyone in the sport. Sergiy Stakhovsky, a member of the ATP Player Council, said he wanted to see a moratorium on adding combined events to allow the men’s game — “a different product, which is better” — to stand on its own. Stakhovsky, ranked 111th, bristles at the blowback combined tournaments receive when they do not offer equal pay. “That’s the only reason why we don’t want them is because it’s always going to come one way or another that we’re the bad guys,” Stakhovsky said. “This way, we have our own venue, they have their own venue. I think that women deserve to be paid more. I’m not saying they deserve to be paid less. But this has nothing to do with paying us. “We’ve been through a lot of talks with the Grand Slams in the last three years, and the increases have been significant and we’re very grateful,” Stakhovsky added. “But every time we came to the table, and every time there was a number we asked for, we got half of it. And we know why.” The top-ranked Djokovic was criticized at Indian Wells for saying men “should get awarded more” because “the stats are showing that we have much more spectators.” Some ATP players, most notably Andy Murray, have been outspoken advocates for equal pay for women. But the American player Madison Keys said that many of the male players she knows “freak out and make it seem like every single week we get the same — which is not true.” “I feel like it’s one of those conversations: When you’re friends with someone, you don’t talk about politics; when you’re friends with someone, you don’t talk about equal prize money in tennis,” she added.