Letters to the Editor - The New York Times
On Wage-Gap Issues, Sports Can Learn From the Tech Industry To the Sports Editor: Re “For Tennis, Equal Pay Remains Elusive,” April 13: Ben Rothenberg’s article on wage disparities among tennis players sheds light on a dirty secret of our sports industry. The recent wage discrimination complaint filed by the United States women’s soccer team exposed the harsh reality of female players’ paychecks compared with their male counterparts. What is particularly infuriating is that male and female tennis players play alongside one another. The sports industry can take a page from tech on addressing wage-gap issues. Though the data is still ambiguous on the industry at large, the latest findings are encouraging. Most recently, Facebook and Microsoft confirmed that men and women at their companies were earning the same. Equal representation has yet to be achieved (women still represent about a third of their workforces), but it’s a shot in the right direction. RESHMA SAUJANI, New York The writer is the founder and chief executive of Girls Who Code.  Varying Affordability To the Sports Editor: Re “At Augusta and Wimbledon, Similar Auras of Tradition,” April 10: Augusta and Wimbledon may have common ground for competitors and insiders, but they are very different events in their accessibility to the general public. Wimbledon makes affordable tickets available to the public through a pre-event lottery and the daily queue, and allows early-departing spectators to donate their tickets to charity for resale at a discount. I’ve gained entry through all these methods. On the other hand, Augusta provides no affordable access for the general public, even those willing to make extra effort to attend. I have family who live in the Augusta area who have never been able to attend the tournament. Spending more than $1,000 to buy a single-day ticket through a broker is not an option for most people. The two events could not be more different in their respect for fans wishing to attend. JEFF CARPENTER, Mamaroneck, N.Y. Acknowledging Mantle To the Sports Editor: Re “Nourished by Legend, If Not Yet Prosperity,” April 11: While it is sad to read of the economic troubles of the town where Mickey Mantle attended high school, at least Commerce, Okla., acknowledges Mantle’s connection to its town. Some years ago I made a pilgrimage to Spavinaw, Okla., where Mantle was born and raised. Stopping for a cup of coffee, I asked the two young men behind the counter if Spavinaw was the place where the Mick was born. Neither of them had heard of Mantle, much less anything about his birthplace. Economic woes notwithstanding, at least Commerce strives to keep its favorite son’s legend alive. BARRY L. WARREN, Port Jefferson, N.Y. Cherished Brooklyn Link To the Sports Editor: “Re A Few Words About a Storyteller Who Has Seen It All,” April 13: As a boy of 8, I encountered Vin Scully — via our new Emerson television — during his rookie season of 1950 as a Dodger play-by-play announcer in the company of Red Barber and Connie Desmond. I loved the Dodgers of Brooklyn. My inspiration was Jackie Robinson. But I readily recall so many other favorites: Roy Campanella, Carl Erskine, Duke Snider, Gil Hodges, Pee Wee Reese, Don Newcombe, Carl Furillo, Sandy Amoros and Billy Cox, among others. When the Dodgers departed for Los Angeles, it broke my heart. But today I cherish Vin Scully as the enduring embodiment of the transcontinental bond linking the Brooklyn days to the Los Angeles years. MICHAEL H. EBNER, Lake Forest, Ill. Full Stands for Robinson To the Sports Editor: Re “60 Years Later, an Apology for Robinson,” April 15: As a 10-year-old on May 10, 1947, I went to a Phillies-Dodgers game at Shibe Park in Philadelphia with my father. This was the second game that Jackie Robinson played in Philadelphia. As we went to our seats, I was struck by the fact that the stands were full. The Phillies were a terrible team and rarely attracted crowds of greater than 5,000. Many of the fans were black. When the Dodgers scored, a man sitting next to me cheered. I asked why he was cheering for the visiting team. “Son, Brooklyn is now our team,” he said. I could not hear the horrible racist remarks made by Ben Chapman and other members of the Phillies. As the years passed, I was able to appreciate what a remarkable event I had witnessed. I wish that I had kept the scorecard. LESTER H. WURTELE, Wyncote, Pa.