Panthers Hit the Road for a Homecoming Game - The New York Times
SUNRISE, Fla. —  When the puck drops Sunday for the start of the first Stanley Cup playoff game ever played in Brooklyn, the Florida Panthers could feel more at home than the Islanders. The Panthers’ owners, Vincent Viola and Doug Cifu, are as New York as New Yorkers come. Viola grew up in Brooklyn and went to high school at Brooklyn Tech, within walking distance of what is now Barclays Center. Since buying the Panthers with Cifu in 2013 and becoming their principal owner, Viola has arranged a team dinner at Bamonte’s, a classic Italian restaurant in Williamsburg. That was where Viola celebrated his first communion, his confirmation and his high school graduation. “Everybody talks, everybody communicates, and it’s just kind of having people appreciate a little bit where Vinnie came from, the old neighborhood,” Cifu said. “He’s from pretty modest means, so he’s a pretty incredible American story. We don’t close the place, either; it’s open to the public, so yeah, it’s 20-some-odd hockey players and then maybe another 20-odd staff, so we have a big, long table of 50 people, and I’m an Italian-American like Vinnie, so it’s a little bit like our family dinners on Sunday.” Cifu can recall Viola telling him of the time he paid either $2 or $4 to go to his first Rangers game, and how proud he is to call himself a Brooklynite. The fact that Viola was involved in the decision to ultimately build Barclays Center as a partner in the Nets’ organization, and helped move the Nets to Brooklyn, is something that Cifu believes has given his friend the feeling that he has come full circle in life. Cifu grew up a Rangers fan in Syosset on Long Island. He watched the Islanders’ run of four consecutive Stanley Cups during his high school years. He finds it surreal that he is in the midst of a playoff series, tied at a game apiece, between his hometown team and the team he partly owns. Cifu recalled when he met Denis Potvin, a former Islanders defenseman and current Panthers broadcaster, and Bill Torrey, an adviser to the Panthers’ front office and the architect of the Islanders’ Cup-winning teams. “I had to thank them for basically ruining my youth because they were such a juggernaut,” Cifu said. “It was tough growing up in Syosset. I think I was one of three Ranger fans.” Potvin laughed about that when he was reminded of it before Florida’s 3-1 win in Game 2 at BB&T Center on Friday night. “You know, I just feel that Mr. Cifu had bad direction as a young child,” he said. “Somebody had to be a Rangers fan in his family.” But it all seems to have worked out, at least from Potvin’s perspective. “I think we’re all on the same page right now, no doubt about that,” he said. Potvin added, “The fact is I told several people that when I first met Mr. Viola and Doug that it just brought me right back to 1993 with Wayne Huizenga,” the Panthers’ original owner. “And the fact that they were ready to open up shop with some real professionals and help this team go a long way and make a commitment to the area rings true.” Viola and Cifu, separated in age by almost a decade, have become close friends. Since buying the Panthers three years ago — the team was born in 1993, the year the Islanders last won a playoff series — they have tried to build a winner in the mold of the Islanders of the early 1980s. Neither of them laced up hockey skates, but Viola, who declined to be interviewed, and Cifu grew to love the sport so much that after becoming successful businessmen, they turned their eye toward buying a team. Viola, the son of a truck driver, graduated from West Point in 1977. He also went to the United States Army Ranger School and served in the 101st Airborne. He started the Texas regional bank Independent Bank Group in 1989, and he is still the company’s largest shareholder. In 1982 he joined the New York Mercantile Exchange, and he was its chairman from 2001 to 2004. In 2008, Viola founded Virtu Financial, a leading electronic trading firm, and he took it public in April 2015. He lives in Manhattan with his wife, Teresa, after raising three sons in New Jersey. “We were sitting at a Ranger game one day talking, and we said, ‘Hey, wouldn’t it be a cool thing or a great thing if we could apply what we’ve learned in operating businesses — I’ve been in business 25 years; he’s been in business 35 years — to a sports team and particularly hockey?’ ” said Cifu, Virtu Financial’s chief executive and one of its founders. “It was just because we had a good sense that we would really like the culture of the game and the players in the game, so our intuition has been 100 percent correct.” They have also made the Panthers appreciate the tradition at Bamonte’s, where the waiters wear Panthers jerseys. “It’s pretty cool, and we get to see where Vinnie grew up,” said Panthers forward Nick Bjugstad, who had a goal and an assist in Game 2. “He worked his way from the bottom, so it’s pretty interesting.” Bjugstad added: “These guys, our owners, definitely support the team really well. They like coming to the locker room every once in a while and talking to us, which is good from a personal level. And Bamonte’s food is unbelievable. We don’t mind going back there every year.”