2016 N.B.A. Playoff Matchups - The New York Times
No. 1 Golden State Warriors vs. No. 8 Houston Rockets Opener: Saturday, 3:30 p.m. Eastern Head-to-head: Warriors, 3-0 Only a season ago, the Rockets and the Warriors were playing in the N.B.A.’s Western Conference finals, and many fans were wondering how Houston guard James Harden was not the league’s most valuable player after he almost single-handedly carried the team during the regular season. Fast forward to today, and Harden is still filling up box scores, but the cast around him has largely collapsed. Dwight Howard is capable of dominance, but maddeningly inconsistent, and the rest of the roster seems unworthy of a playoff spot. The Rockets’ best chance for success is for Harden to have one of his signature dominant games on the same day that Howard has one of his turn-back-the-clock nights. Expecting that to happen four times against the Warriors is a little unrealistic. Pick: Warriors No. 2 San Antonio Spurs vs. No. 7 Memphis Grizzlies Opener: Sunday, 8 p.m. Head-to-head: Spurs, 4-0 Even as the Warriors set an N.B.A. wins record, there were those who wondered if the Spurs were just as good. They won 67 games, outscoring their opponents by an average of 10.6 points a game. When adjusted for pace, they had the league’s most efficient defense and the fourth most efficient offense. Even as they transitioned to a newer and younger core of Kawhi Leonard and LaMarcus Aldridge, from the old guard of Tim Duncan and Tony Parker, they did not seem to lose a step and may even have improved. The Grizzlies are still full of grit and grind, but simply could not stay healthy enough this season for their indomitable collective personality to matter. At full strength they may have been a team for the Spurs to worry about, but they enter the playoffs without Mike Conley and Marc Gasol, and Tony Allen is nursing a hamstring injury. Pick: Spurs No. 3 Oklahoma City Thunder vs. No. 6 Dallas Mavericks Opener: Saturday, 9:30 p.m. Head-to-Head: Thunder, 4-0 The Thunder are deep enough that in a late-season game in which they benched Kevin Durant, Russell Westbrook and Serge Ibaka because their playoff seeding was secure, they nearly beat the Portland Trail Blazers thanks to a 33-point, 20-rebound performance by Enes Kanter, a backup center and candidate for the Sixth Man of the Year Award. The Mavericks do not have much depth beyond Dirk Nowitzki. The various strategies the team has tried to employ to surround him with talent since its 2011 title have fallen flat. The one shot the Mavericks have for an upset is exploiting the Thunder’s noted struggles in the fourth quarter. If the game is close, and the pressure starts to get to them, there are fewer players more equipped to take advantage than Nowitzki. But that possibility is remote. Pick: Thunder No. 4 Los Angeles Clippers vs. No. 5 Portland Trail Blazers Opener: Sunday, 10:30 p.m. Head-to-head: Clippers, 3-1 By nearly every account, the Trail Blazers were entering the season as a rebuilding team. LaMarcus Aldridge and Robin Lopez left as free agents, and Nicolas Batum was traded, with the team focusing on saving money and building for a future around Damian Lillard. Then Portland won only seven fewer games while riding an offense so potent that it made up for its defensive deficiencies. While the Blazers seem to have a bright future, and have had a tendency to overachieve, the Clippers, on their best day, are probably the fourth best team after Golden State, San Antonio and Oklahoma City. Chris Paul may not be able to keep up with Stephen Curry anymore, but he probably has enough tricks up his sleeve to deal with Lillard. Pick: Clippers No. 1 Cleveland Cavaliers vs. No. 8 Detroit Pistons Opener: Sunday, 3 p.m. Head-to-head: Pistons, 3-1 After falling in the N.B.A. finals last season, the Cavaliers came back this season with a healthier roster and won four more regular-season games. But somewhere along the line, nearly everyone seemed to stop believing in them. Coach David Blatt was fired despite a career coaching record of 83-40, and under Tyronn Lue, they seemed just as discontent. On talent, LeBron James, Kyrie Irving, Kevin Love and Tristan Thompson should be able to compete with anyone, and a return trip to the finals seems almost inevitable. But the conference is viewed as weak, which diminishes the feat of being its champion. For Detroit, this series may be as much about getting Andre Drummond playoff experience as about winning games, but Coach Stan Van Gundy’s team will come to play. Pick: Cavaliers No. 2 Toronto Raptors vs. No. 7 Indiana Pacers Opener: Saturday, 12:30 p.m. Head-to-head: Raptors, 3-1 Looking to answer for a late-season collapse a year ago, the Raptors entered this season with a chip on their shoulder and easily won a No. 2 seed behind terrific efforts by Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan and underrated contributions from Jonas Valanciunas and Bismack Biyombo. The prized off-season acquisition DeMarre Carroll is finally healthy, and hoping to see his minutes increase as the playoffs go along, but Toronto will first have to get through Paul George and the Pacers. The Pacers are a strong defensive team, and a combination of George and Monta Ellis can provide a suitable amount of offense, but they are likely to fall short barring Toronto’s beating itself by letting its past failures creep into its mind-set. Pick: Raptors No. 3 Miami Heat vs. No. 6 Charlotte Hornets Opener: Sunday, 5:30 p.m. Head-to-head: Tied, 2-2 The difference between the Nos. 3 through 6 seeds in the East came down to tiebreakers, as the four teams finished with identical records. While Miami came out on top, the Hornets have the momentum; they finished the season on a 24-8 run from Feb. 6 on, which was third best behind Golden State and San Antonio. The Hornets may not have a true superstar, but they can attack in different ways with Kemba Walker and Jeremy Lin providing offensive firepower. Al Jefferson has re-established himself as an inside force, and Nicolas Batum has reinvigorated his career as a do-everything wing. The Heat reworked their offense after losing Chris Bosh for the season and on their best day can be something special to watch, but the Hornets are on a roll and have what it takes to send the veteran-laden team home. Pick: Hornets No. 4 Atlanta Hawks vs. No. 5 Boston Celtics Opener: Head-to-head: Hawks, 3-1 The Celtics were this season’s pundit darling as far as a team led by a great young coach that features a plethora of quality players. The script should sound familiar to the Hawks, as that was their role last year. The biggest difference between last year’s 60-win Hawks and this year’s 48-win squad was a drop in offensive efficiency. They still kept teams honest with a strong defensive crew led by Paul Millsap, an unexpected contender for defensive player of the year, but Kyle Korver regressed to the mean after a dream season. Without Korver’s long-distance threat to change the game in a heartbeat, which spread opposing defenses wide, the Hawks struggled. The Celtics built an offense that relies a lot on Isaiah Thomas’s ability to defy physics, but Coach Brad Stevens’s team approach has turned them into tenacious competitors who rise to the occasion. Pick: Celtics