League Will Allow Ads on Jerseys and May Reassess All-Star Game Site - The New York Times
Last month, after legislation was signed in North Carolina limiting restroom access for transgender people and forbidding local governments to create their own antidiscrimination ordinances based on sexual orientation, the N.B.A. released an official statement questioning whether it could successfully host the 2017 All-Star Game in Charlotte. It left many wondering whether the league would move the game elsewhere to join the growing group of companies and individuals speaking out against the law. On Friday, Commissioner Adam Silver said that he found the legislation problematic but that there was not currently any discussion among the league’s owners to move the game. He did not rule out revisiting that option at a later date. N.B.A. owners discussed the issue this week in New York over two days of meetings, which also included a vote that will allow teams to put small advertising logos on team jerseys. That step, although it has its critics, was not anywhere near as vexing as the North Carolina issue may prove to be. “I think that the best role for the league to play here is through constructive engagement toward change, not setting deadlines, not making ultimatums, but working with the private sector and the government to effect change in North Carolina,” Silver said. The situation in North Carolina has already moved various companies and celebrities to take action in protest. PayPal said it would not build an operations center in Charlotte as planned. Deutsche Bank put off plans to create 250 jobs in Raleigh. Bruce Springsteen and Ringo Starr have canceled concerts. Silver said the N.B.A. was in an unusual situation, given that the league has a franchise in the state, the Charlotte Hornets, which has continued operating as usual over the last month and is about to begin postseason games. “The issue for us — and maybe this is different than where some of the other businesses find themselves in North Carolina — is that we have a team in North Carolina, and that distinction, for example, between the All-Star Game and the regular operation of a team is not clear to me,” Silver said. Silver said the league would continue to monitor the situation, noting that besides its own interests, it had to consider the interests of the entertainers who would perform at an All-Star game, the hundreds of vendors who supply services to guests and the thousands of fans who would attend the event. Silver said the owners were conscious of balancing their business needs and their desire to address social issues. “There’s a long record in this league of speaking out where we see discrimination,” he said. Last December, the N.B.A. created a stir when it used its daylong schedule of Christmas Day games as a platform for TV advertisements calling for an end to gun violence. The words “gun control” were never mentioned in the ads, but the organization that paid for them — Everytown for Gun Safety — has been highly visible in battling for stricter gun measures. At the time, the N.B.A. said there had been little internal debate about working with the Everytown group. In this instance, Silver said, the owners did not take a vote on the All-Star Game issue. They did vote, however, to allow teams to negotiate jersey sponsorship deals beginning in the 2017-18 season. The N.B.A.’s 30 teams will be responsible for selling their own uniform sponsorships, which, Silver said, could be for as long as three years as part of what he referred to as an “experiment” and a “pilot program.” Silver said the league was estimating that the program would result in $100 million in additional revenue. The sponsor patches will measure about 2.5 inches by 2.5 inches and will be placed near the left chest area of the jerseys. The 2017-18 season will also be the league’s first with Nike as its official uniform provider. The N.B.A. does not currently have a manufacturer’s logo on jerseys, but Nike will add its logo, on the right chest area, in 2017. Sports teams around the world wear sponsor logos on their jerseys. But among American sports leagues, the practice is less common. Major League Soccer has advertising and sponsor logos on its uniforms, as does the W.N.B.A. Silver acknowledged that some fans were against the addition of sponsor logos to the uniforms, which made a trial-balloon debut in the 2016 All-Star game. “This is part of building the league,” he said, “and I think if you look at the progression of the league over the years, there has been many sponsorship opportunities that we’ve added, and they’ve been met initially with mixed reviews, and I’d say over time that as we generate more money and invest more money back into the game, improving the game, improving our marketing, improving and growing the footprint of the game, I think the results will be positive.” He added, “But there’s a reason this is a pilot program. I mean, we listen very closely to our fans, and so we’ll see what the reaction is.”