Matt Harvey Dominates, for a While, Then Falters Again in the Sixth - The New York Times
CLEVELAND — To the first three hitters on Saturday, Matt Harvey pitched with the fury of an overpowering closer. He struck out the side against the Cleveland Indians, needing only 10 pitches to do it. So much, it seemed, for those troubling early signs of a more hittable Harvey. “He blew everyone away,” said the Indians’ Mike Napoli, who watched the last strikeout from the on-deck circle. “And I’m like, Oh, man, this is going to be a battle today.” It was a battle Harvey lost. Again. He is not a closer, after all. He is a starter who cannot get past the sixth inning. The Mets fell to the Indians, 7-5, when Harvey repeated the baffling pattern that has given him an 0-3 record and a 5.71 E.R.A. “He’s cruising along and all of a sudden it just disappears — fast,” Manager Terry Collins said. “That’s on my mind a little bit.” Collins, at 66, is the oldest manager in the majors. Surely he has seen starters look strong for a while and then crash and burn at the same point, game after game. “I’ve seen it with guys,” Collins said. “But not guys of his caliber, no.” Harvey is not just another guy. The Mets’ best starter might actually be Noah Syndergaard, but Harvey is the one with the strut, the swagger and the status-symbol private cabinet for his belongings in the locker room at Citi Field. He was the Game 1 starter in the World Series and the regular season. He is the headliner. Harvey did not like the headlines late last summer, when the possibility of a strict innings limit prompted some to question his toughness and commitment. He squelched all that by taking the ball — demanding it — all the way to the ninth inning of the last game of the World Series. The Mets lost, of course, but Harvey had made his point. He was the alpha ace. Now he is lost. “Nobody’s more frustrated right now than I am — not just today but the last couple of starts,” Harvey said. “There’s a lot of things that went wrong.” Harvey retired the first 13 hitters he faced on Saturday. The next 13 hitters went 6 for 10, with three walks and two stolen bases. He lasted five and two-thirds innings, allowing five earned runs. He struck out just one batter after that dominant first inning. Things were so different last season for Harvey, who had missed 2014 recovering from Tommy John surgery. Through three starts, he had 24 strikeouts and one walk in 18 innings. Through three starts this season, he has nine strikeouts and seven walks in 171/3 innings. Harvey dismissed the idea that a disruption of his spring training routine — he was treated in late March for a blood clot in his bladder — had affected him. Then what about those 216 innings last season, including the high-stress games in October and November, as a culprit? “I don’t think it is,” Harvey said. “I personally don’t know, but my body feels fine; my arm feels fine.” He seemed that way for a while on Saturday, especially in the first. Each strikeout followed the same sequence: called strike, foul, swinging strike, with only one ball mixed in to one hitter. The Indians looked helpless. “To me, all he did was throw fastballs — strike one, strike two, strike three,” Cleveland’s Francisco Lindor said. “The second at-bat, I was looking for a fastball and got a changeup, and I rolled over. He was throwing strikes, putting the ball where he wanted, and very efficient.” Harvey lost the lead in the fifth on a walk, a stolen base, a two-out double by Jose Ramirez and a screaming line-drive single by Juan Uribe. But once more, he really came undone in the sixth inning. It happened in the opener at Kansas City, it happened last Sunday against Philadelphia, and it happened here, against the same hitters Harvey had humbled the first two times through the order. “The guys got something on him,” said Lindor, who bunted during the four-hit, two-walk rally. “They were seeing the ball after that, I guess. They were putting the barrel on the ball.” Harvey had pitched in the sunlight earlier in the game, with the hitters in shadow — clearly, Lindor said, that helped him. The Indians’ leadoff man, Rajai Davis, agreed and said Harvey was deceptive until he pitched out of the stretch. “He was very effective in the windup; getting him in the stretch, he’s a different pitcher,” Davis said, adding later: “Once he got in the stretch, it was like an opening for us. Our guys did a good job taking care of that.” So did the Royals. So did the Phillies. The lowly Braves await Harvey next, in Atlanta on Friday, and if he cannot push through the sixth against them, the Mets will really have a problem. For now, Harvey can lean on the salvation of every player who struggles in April: It is, indeed, still early. But it is also puzzling. In the sixth inning this season, Harvey has allowed nine hits and seven earned runs, walked four and thrown two wild pitches, with only one strikeout among his seven outs. “I’m not hitting a wall,” said Harvey, who then gave the very definition of it. “I’ve just got to figure out how to get through that fifth, sixth inning, and right now I’m not able to do a good job of that.” He sees the problem. So do the Mets — and so do the opposing hitters.