Honoring an Islanders Father Figure - The New York Times
HUNTINGTON, N.Y. —  Al Arbour surely would have been proud to witness the gathering of his former players on Friday. Stories that followed his memorial service were the stuff of hockey legend. The joy of telling them on Long Island was especially poignant for his family, particularly his wife, Claire. From Clark Gillies to Bob Nystrom, Pierre Turgeon to Garry Howatt and John Tonelli to Gerry Hart, they came from various eras of Islanders history to honor their sometimes caustic but always caring father figure of a coach, who died in August at 82. The timing — days before the start of the Stanley Cup playoffs — was apropos, since this was Arbour’s favorite time of year. “To have Al’s players show up and hear how they felt about him meant so much to me,” Claire Arbour said after a luncheon at Huntington Country Club, where she once scored a hole in one, much to her ever-competitive husband’s chagrin. “The tears came because there was nothing fake here. It was all genuine.” The family was happy to have a service for Arbour, the former coach on Long Island, where he led the team from 1973 to 1986 and again from 1988 to 1994 during his Hall of Fame career. The family and the players attended a service at St. Patrick’s Church in Huntington, where they were also accompanied by the Stanley Cup — which he won four times with the Islanders. Jean Potvin, the former defenseman, and Chico Resch, the Islanders’ goalie from 1974 to 1981, did short readings before Gillies — the fearsome left wing on the high-scoring Trio Grande Line with Bryan Trottier and Mike Bossy in the team’s heyday — delivered a heartfelt eulogy in which he read the poem “The Dash,” which considers the meaning of the time between the first and final days of life. After sharing a few humorous vignettes about his playing days and Arbour’s career, Gillies became emotional when concluding the poem by Linda Ellis: So, when your eulogy is being read, with your life’s actions to rehash ... would you be proud of the things they say about how you spent your dash? “Al,” Gillies added as his voice wavered and his eyes welled with tears. “Thank you for letting us share your dash.” It is not hard to understand why Arbour meant so much to his players. Not only did the Islanders win the Stanley Cup four times, they captured a record 19 straight playoff series. They almost won a fifth straight championship in 1984, losing to the Edmonton Oilers in the finals. If Arbour was more short-tempered and brusque in his earlier years with the Islanders, Benoit Hogue, who played for the last Islanders team to win a postseason series, in 1993, said that perhaps he played for a slightly mellower coach. “We got the Al Arbour more on the smooth side, but he still was the same coach during games,” Hogue said. “He would say two or three words, and you’d walk away and say, ‘I get it.’ We all learned so much from him. What he did for myself and so many guys, we can’t forget it.” Arbour returned for one game behind the bench in November 2007, his 1,500th with the team. The Islanders’ coach at the time, Ted Nolan, wanted to make sure Arbour had a chance to reach that milestone, and the evening turned into a celebration as the Islanders beat Pittsburgh for Arbour’s 740th win with the team, the most by any coach with one franchise. The current Islanders coach, Jack Capuano, is second on the team’s career list with 210 victories. Arbour played as a defenseman for 14 seasons. He wore glasses that earned him the nickname Radar after the character on the television show “M*A*S*H.” When he became coach of the Islanders in 1973, the team had won 12 games the previous season, its first as an expansion franchise. Pat LaFontaine, the Hall of Fame center who joined the Islanders straight from the 1984 Winter Olympics at age 19, said that coaching was only part of what defined Arbour — that he could be measured more in terms of being a husband, father and family man. “Every person has been blessed by having Al in their lives,” LaFontaine said. Nystrom, who played his entire career for the Islanders and scored the first Cup-winning goal in 1980, said: “I was there for 14 years, and it was very special the way Al crafted the boys. He had such a knack for what the players needed. None of us will ever forget Al. The memories we have, that’s what life is all about. “