 Special teams prove difference for Capitals in Game 2 victory - The Washington Post
The Washington Capitals’ goal Saturday night that won’t soon be forgotten happened a little more than two minutes into the second period, when a long clear by defenseman Karl Alzner tipped off the stick of wing Jason Chimera near the home bench at mid-ice and somehow slid through the five-hole of Philadelphia Flyers goalie Steve Mason. But it was the third goal of Washington’s 4-1 win over Philadelphia in Game 2 — off a pass that forward T.J. Oshie initially thought was too hot to handle and that instead sailed through his skate — that provided a glimpse into how these Capitals grabbed a 2-0 series lead. “I probably didn’t have to turn around,” Oshie told Chimera on the bench. “I thought he must be hitting Ovi on the back side for a goal here.” Indeed, center Nicklas Backstrom had found captain Alex Ovechkin for one of the blistering power-play one-timers from the top of the left penalty circle that he makes look routine during the regular season. But far too often, including last year, the Capitals have failed to translate these sorts of highlight-reel plays into the playoffs.  [Fluke goal boosts Capitals en route to 2-0 series lead]  Not this postseason.  After Saturday, which marked the first time since April 26, 2009, against the New York Rangers that the Capitals scored two goals on the power play in a Stanley Cup playoff game, they are 3 for 8 on the man advantage against the Flyers. They were 3 for 28 on the power play during 14 games in last year’s playoffs. The Flyers, meanwhile, are 0 for 8 on the power play in this series, and their special teams’ failures became a predominant story line again Saturday. Despite finishing Game 2 with a 42-23 shot advantage, Philadelphia watched the Capitals grab the momentum when it couldn’t beat goalie Braden Holtby with a two-man advantage late in the first period.  “I loved how our fans were going nuts after that,” defenseman John Carlson said.  [Best and worst from the Capitals’ Game 2 victory over the Flyers]  Carlson also was in the middle of Washington’s first power-play goal, waiting and waiting while cradling the puck on his stick until the moment Oshie and forward Marcus Johansson aligned directly in front of Mason. It was an eerily similar setup to the goal Carlson netted on the man advantage in Thursday’s Game 1.  Though Ovechkin provided the fireworks late in the second period Saturday, his linemates on the power-play unit are racking up points in this series, too. Backstrom has four points (one goal, three assists) — he scored the Capitals’ final goal — and Johansson now has four assists in two games.  None were as pretty as the one Oshie knew he had no shot at corralling. “We’re moving the puck well, and we’re taking what’s there. We’re not forcing anything,” Johansson said. “That maybe makes them think about it. We have so many options out there that are always pretty hard to defend.”