 Rays fix netting after foul ball strikes, hospitalizes fan - The Washington Post
Tropicana Field stadium workers were on the field Saturday fixing the netting on the first and third base sides following a foul ball incident that sent a fan to the hospital. The play happened on Friday when a ball went through a small hole in the netting and into the lower level, hitting a woman near her eye. The game stopped for 12 minutes as she was carried off on a stretcher. She remains hospitalized in stable condition, according to team officials. Rays right fielder Steven Souza Jr., who hit the foul ball, went over to check on the woman following the incident and has been in contact with her husband.   Never something I want to see happen to a fan. My heart goes out to that woman in the stands. Please all be praying for her! — Steven Souza Jr. (@SouzaJr) April 16, 2016   Woman at #Rays game tended to by medical staff after getting struck by a foul ball off bat of Steven Souza. #MLB pic.twitter.com/qGWi8tIiWN — Ron Clements (@Ron_Clements) April 16, 2016   Foul balls and broken bats have long been a problem for MLB. A 2014 Bloomberg News analysis found that about 1,750 spectators are hurt each year from batted balls, which is more often than batters are hit by pitches (1,536). The injuries are typically minor, but the victims of the serious strikes tend to be children, according to Foulballz.com. That’s why Ed Comber, who runs the site, has advocated for special family sections at MLB parks. After last season, MLB announced in December recommendations to extend safety netting to the ends of both dugouts and anywhere within 70 feet of home plate. At Tropicana Field, the primary home plate-area screen ends at the start of the photo area, and a second screen behind the photo area was installed before this season. While Friday’s incident could’ve been prevented by better netting, Comber has called foul on MLB’s plan to protect its fans and argues that there are better long-term solutions, such as banning cell phone use in certain sections and implementing glass. Via Foulballz.com: “In truth, netting is not a cost-efficient method for protecting fans and maintaining the player/fan interaction which is central to baseball. Netting, is both the short- and long-term, is more expensive to install and to maintain, a point MLB Commissioner Manfred appeared to ignore before making his announcement during the 2015 Winter Meetings in which he “recommended” extended netting. The issues opponents to extended netting addressed to MLB were ignored. Indeed, Commissioner Manfred ignored several alternatives to extended netting, particularly banning cell phone use in certain sections and moving families with small children into designated sections in the outfield and upper decks, areas with fewer foul balls and no errant bats. He also ignored the idea of tempered glass. This was an error that could cost teams and the league tens of thousands of dollars over the course of each season.”