 Jayson Werth and Ryan Zimmerman sit and other lineup notes - The Washington Post
MIAMI — Hours after he left Wednesday night’s game with tightness in his left hamstring, Jayson Werth’s name was not Thursday’s lineup card — though it was not supposed to be. Nationals Manager Dusty Baker planned a day off for Werth and first baseman Ryan Zimmerman as part of his ongoing effort to keep both healthy, particularly until the weather gets warm enough that tough-to-shake tightness is no longer a concern. As for that hamstring, Baker reiterated that taking Werth out was entirely precautionary, and that he is not concerned about long-term issues. He indicated Werth felt a tug when he lunged for a ball he chased to his left, a tough catch made in front of Michael A. Taylor Wednesday night. “He didn’t say anything, so I didn’t really ask him. Like I said, it was more precautionary than anything. I didn’t see it on the (injury) reports,” Baker said. “He seemed like he was getting around pretty good. But he was going to be off today anyway, so it was just a matter of precaution. Trying to keep him healthy. He’s starting to play better.” Baker acknowledged Werth is looking better in the outfield, improving in left field after a somewhat shaky start, and pointed out that playing every day out there is tough for a player with “a lot of miles” on his legs, like Werth. “I told him, you’re not old until your legs feel old,” Baker said. “Right now, his legs are feeling pretty good, so we gotta make sure he stays there.” Baker is managing Zimmerman similarly. The 31-year-old has played in 11 of the Nationals’ 14 games, and while Zimmerman has not fought him on days off, Baker can tell he would rather play. “I just tell him, ‘hey man, I’m trying to do what’s best for you and best for us,” Baker said. “Knock on wood, he’s been very good. He’s actually running very well.” With Werth out of the lineup, Matt den Dekker will play left field. Baker slotted him into the leadoff spot, which knocked Taylor down to seventh. Baker said he thinks Taylor will return to the leadoff spot tomorrow, but in moving him down Thursday, he hopes to give the 25-year-old a “mental day off.” “When you’re the leadoff man, and you’re going good, you’re looking forward to four or five at-bats,” Baker said. “But when you’re going bad, those four or five at-bats, they add up quickly.” Taylor is 6 for 25 on this road trip with two home runs and 11 strikeouts. Discuss the game below, if you wish. LINEUP Den Dekker LF Rendon 3B Harper RF Murphy 2B Ramos C Robinson 1B Taylor CF Espinosa SS Scherzer P