 Virginia baseball team uninjured after bus driver loses consciousness, crashes bus - The Washington Post
The Virginia baseball team’s bus crashed while traveling in Miami around 6 p.m. Thursday after its driver had a medical emergency and lost consciousness while the bus was still in motion, according to Miami Fire and Rescue spokesman Iggy Carroll. The bus driver was transported to a nearby hospital in critical condition, but none of Virginia’s players, coaches or support staff were injured in the crash. Members of Virginia’s coaching staff tried to secure the driver and apply the emergency brake when they realized the driver was having a medical emergency. They successfully steered the bus off the road, but it crashed into three parked vehicles, Carroll said, before coming to rest up against a tree. The bus also hit a fence and sent through the bus’s windshield a metal post that landed where the Virginia coaches had previously been sitting. JUST IN: Passenger bus carrying UVA baseball team crashes into parked cars in Miami. Players and staff not injured. pic.twitter.com/kZP2lO3mdf — NBC29 (@NBC29) April 22, 2016  “The coach and his staff are commended for their quick action in not only getting the bus off to the side of the road near a very busy intersection,” Carroll said, “but [for] their quick, life-saving efforts in trying to help this bus driver out.” Members of Virginia’s coaching staff initiated CPR until paramedics arrived on scene and transported the driver to a nearby hospital. The team was examined and remained on scene until police arrived, then were transported to a hotel. Virginia (24-16) was traveling to play a three-game series against No. 1 Miami in Coral Gables, Fla., starting Friday. The games will be played as scheduled. A spokesman for Virginia’s athletics department released the following statement Thursday night: “The Virginia baseball team was en route from the Miami airport to its hotel late this afternoon when the driver of its bus suffered a medical emergency, leading to a subsequent accident. There were no injuries to members of the team and staff traveling on the bus. The team was moved to another bus and reached its hotel early this evening. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the bus driver and his family.”