 Five Redskins games you won’t want to miss - The Washington Post
The NFL regular season schedule was announced on Thursday with the Washington Redskins opening the season on Monday night against the Pittsburgh Steelers at FedEx Field. Here are the five most compelling Redskins games: Week 4 vs. Cleveland Browns  This one was obvious once the Browns signed former Redskins quarterback Robert Griffin III. The match-up tops the list with the assumption that Griffin starts and doesn’t get hurt or serve as a backup to Carson Wentz or Jared Goff. His return to FedEx Field in a different uniform will be an odd sight, but it will make for a fun game. That’s hard to do with the Browns. The trash talking began immediately after the schedule was released. @RGIII Oct 2nd Fam 😡😡🤕 — Junior Galette (@JovaisG) April 15, 2016  Week 8 vs. Cincinnati Bengals (in London)  Redskins Coach Jay Gruden will face his former team and Bengals Coach Marvin Lewis. Gruden was there for just three seasons, but he’s one of three former coordinators under Lewis to receive a head coaching opportunity in the last three years along with Browns Coach Hue Jackson and Minnesota Vikings Coach Mike Zimmer. This game will also be the franchise’s second international regular season game and first in Europe for the league’s international series. There are a lot of Redskins fans (and a certain Redskins beat writer) on social media that seem excited to attend this unique experience. Week 12 at Dallas Cowboys (Thanksgiving) There’s a case to be made for the Redskins’ first matchup against Dallas in Week 2 when former Redskins running back Alfred Morris returns to FedEx Field, but this game seems more interesting. Washington will be coming off what should be a physical Sunday night game against the Green Bay Packers, and it has a very short window to rest up for the Cowboys. While a rivalry game on Thanksgiving will be very appealing for a national audience, it will be a very difficult week of preparation with that quick turnaround. Week 10 vs. Minnesota Vikings  Washington has a tough schedule after the bye in Week 9, and it starts with a home game against the defending NFC North champions. The Redskins will start a six-game stretch facing four NFC teams that made the playoffs last year and arguably four of the most talented teams in the conference (Vikings, Packers, Arizona Cardinals and Carolina Panthers). The Redskins also have two division games (Cowboys and Philadelphia Eagles) with three straight games on the road (at Dallas, at Arizona and at Philadelphia). This game will be the start of a pretty difficult road that will likely determine if the Redskins will make the playoffs in consecutive seasons. Week 1 vs. Pittsburgh Steelers  This should be a great atmosphere, even with all the Steelers fans that will be in attendance. These are two playoff teams in 2015 that will start the season on Monday night and all the optimism that comes with the season opener at home. It might be a good time for the Redskins to face the Steelers, too. Running back Le’Veon Bell is recovering from a torn MCL and PCL, and it’s unknown whether he’ll be ready by Week 1.