 After roughly three weeks, Chris Beard bolts UNLV for Texas Tech - The Washington Post
What happens in Vegas stays in Vegas — except for Chris Beard, who was hired to coach Texas Tech’s men’s basketball team three weeks after taking the same job at UNLV. On Friday, the former Arkansas-Little Rock coach signed a five-year deal to lead the Red Raiders. UNLV athletic director Tina Kunzer-Murphy was not exactly thrilled. “Coach Beard has informed me he intends to pursue the men’s basketball head-coaching job at Texas Tech,” she said Friday in a statement. “This unprecedented move is extremely disappointing to the president and I, for our program and to our fans. Our search process allowed us to develop a deep pool of qualified candidates, from which we will select a great coach who really wants to be here and who will honor his commitments in leading the Runnin’ Rebels.” Beard’s decision didn’t come out of nowhere. College basketball’s game of musical coaching chairs saw Tubby Smith bolt from Texas Tech to Memphis on Thursday, which left a seat open for the head job in Lubbock. The Red Raiders went hard after Beard, who was an assistant at Texas Tech from 2001-2011. Beard, who grew up in Texas, was happy to return home and move closer to his three daughters — even if that meant going back on his word and the five-year deal worth about $5 million that he signed with UNLV on March 28. “Simply stated, it’s great to be home.” #WreckEm https://t.co/PKk0f1vFVG — Texas Tech Athletics (@TechAthletics) April 16, 2016  Beard made the most of his one season Arkansas-Little Rock. The Trojans went 30-5 and won the Sun Belt’s regular season and tournament titles before advancing to the second round of the NCAA tournament thanks to an upset against Purdue. At Texas Tech, he takes over a team coming off its first NCAA tournament appearance since 2007. The Red Raiders went 19-13 and earned a No. 8 seed, falling to Butler in the first round. Beard will have to pay a $1 million buyout to get out of his contract with UNLV, but at least — unlike player transfers — he won’t have to sit out a year.