 Drew Storen adjusting to new life with the Blue Jays - The Washington Post
BALTIMORE — Until the Blue Jays landed in Toronto ahead of their April 8 home opener, Drew Storen had never been to his new home city. When the Nationals played an interleague series in Toronto in 2012, the former longtime Washington reliever was rehabbing an elbow injury. So on the bus ride after landing in Toronto, Storen made sure to put his phone down and take in the new sights. “I was blown away with how big it was,” he said before Wednesday’s game against the Orioles. “Everybody says how great it is and this and that. It’s a big place. I didn’t know any better. Wow. This is incredible.” After a crash course in the Blue Jays in spring training, he is slowly finding a routine with his new team, which acquired him from the Nationals for Ben Revere in January. Storen is living in an apartment in downtown Toronto. He bought a bike so he has a 10-minute commute to Rogers Centre. Putting on the blue uniform, at first, was admittedly “really weird” for Storen after seven years in the Nationals organization. “You really take for granted knowing everybody and I didn’t know anyone here at first,” he said. “The first three weeks I was trying to figure out names and we didn’t have names in the back of our spring training unis so I really had to earn it. It’s been great. Everybody welcomed me with open arms. It’s a wonderful group of guys that works really hard and have big-time personalities but guys in it for the right reasons.” Storen said he was grateful that all-star catcher Russell Martin had the locker next to him in spring training so the two could talk often. Aside from a new team, city and uniform, Storen’s biggest challenge has been learning a new league and division of hitters. He used to ignore highlights of American League games after six years as either a set-up man or closer in the National League, but keeps reminding himself now that these are the opponents he needs to focus on. The AL East is a division of smaller ballparks and loaded lineups, but Storen said he told himself this would be a fun challenge. It comes at a critical time — his final season before free agency — but, if he can prove he can pitch in this division, he will be attractive to more teams this winter. Storen lost out to incumbent Roberto Osuna in spring training for the closer’s role. Used primarily in a set-up role, Storen has allowed five runs in 6 1/3 innings over seven games, notching one save when Osuna was unavailable. “These hitters are so much better,” Storen said. “They’re hitting pitches some others couldn’t hit. There’s balls that are finding holes and things like that. But for me, I just try to get a hold or a save in whatever situation I’m in. It’s just about getting in a rhythm and routine. With everything new, you do take for granted the auto-pilot. When it’s opening day in D.C., it’s all the same and you’re just building on last year. Now, it’s kinda like re-making it to the big leagues and in a new league. It’s kinda like doing that whole process to do that all over again.” Storen said it doesn’t matter what inning he pitches in the future. He was 29-of-31 in save chances last season until the Nationals traded for closer Jonathan Papelbon, which didn’t sit well with him and marked the second time the team had removed him from the ninth inning role. He has 96 career saves along with 77 holds, a nebulous statistic. “As long as you’re in a good situation, for me that’s the important thing,” he said. “That’s why I was excited about the thought of closing here to be part of a good ball club and a good group. That’s what it’s all about. Obviously the business side of things are important but they take care of themselves as long as you do your job.” Storen stays in touch with former teammates but mostly with fellow relievers Sean Burnett, Tyler Clippard and Craig Stammen, who are also no longer on the team. He said he used to run the Nationals’ team text chat but had to mute it now so “I don’t have to be in their business.” But even if a year passes without seeing former teammates and friends, Storen said it will feel like things haven’t changed. The baseball world is a small one anyway. Storen has done his part to get adjusted to his new surroundings. He met popular Toronto councilman Norm Kelly after tweeting at him. He has yet to meet one of Toronto’s most popular natives, rapper Drake. “We’ve got plenty of time for that,” Storen said. “It’s been cool. It’s different. It’s a big city feel. It’s different because D.C. is unique. It’s like five cities in one. It’s like one really big, clean New York.”