 Don’t expect the Wizards to trade into the NBA draft - The Washington Post
The Washington Wizards effectively punted on this June’s draft when they decided to include a top-nine protected pick in the package sent to the Phoenix Suns in exchange for Markieff Morris at the trade deadline. The Wizards already were without a second-round selection – they traded theirs to move up to nab Kelly Oubre Jr. on draft night last year – and the odds of them finishing with one of the nine worst records in the NBA were tiny. The season was a disappointment, but it wasn’t that bad. The organization still had playoff aspirations when they traded for Morris, who was supposed to help them get there. As it currently stands, there’s a 97.8 percent chance the Wizards will not have a pick in the June 23 draft at Barclays Center. The remaining 2.2 percent covers the possibility of Washington, which finished with the NBA’s 13th-worst record, moving into the top three by lottery. The draft lottery is scheduled for May 19. If the ping-pong balls miraculously go their way, the Wizards would retain their first-round selection. The top-nine protected pick compensation would then roll over to next season. If they don’t, the Suns will pick 13th. Asked Thursday if the Wizards plan on trading into the draft, President Ernie Grunfeld all but said no. “Well, we look at Markieff as being our draft pick, and I don’t think we’ll get a player where we’d be drafting that can do the kind of things that he can do and be under contract for three years like that and still be young but proven,” Grunfeld said. Morris, 26, will make $8 million each of the next three seasons – a bargain in today’s NBA financial climate. The 6-foot-10 forward’s talent was never questioned, but the ugly ending to his time in Phoenix raised red flags. Morris, however, fit in with the Wizards on and off the court. He started 21 of his 27 games with the Wizards at power forward. He averaged 12.4 points on 46.7-percent shooting and 5.9 rebounds in 26.4 minutes per game. Most importantly for the Wizards, Morris’s prime aligns with John Wall’s prime, he is a suitable power forward for the style they adopted this season, and his contract doesn’t inhibit them from pursuing a max-contract player this summer. “We feel really good about that situation, as far as Markieff is concerned as compared to the draft pick,” Grunfeld said. “The draft nowadays you’re drafting a freshman or a sophomore and you have to develop them and those are not the kind of players – in most cases – that can come in and really contribute to a playoff-caliber team. And we feel like we’re a playoff-caliber team and that’s what we want to get back to. And we have a lot of pieces in place already and, like I said, we have some flexibility where we can add some more pieces than we already have.” Devin Booker, Zach LaVine, Kelly Olynyk, Kendall Marshall, Markieff Morris, Ed Davis, and Tyler Hansbrough are the players selected 13th over the past seven drafts. The organization’s approach was apparent in the Wizards’ use of Oubre, selected 15th overall last June. The Wizards always thought of the rookie as a long-term project after barely playing in his only season at Kansas. He’s an athletic, long-limbed wing Washington didn’t possess. Oubre wasn’t expected to contribute; ideally, the Wizards would’ve been able to send him to the D-League for some time. But when injuries ravaged the roster, Oubre was forced to step up and he was effective. From Dec. 14 through Jan. 20, he averaged 6.1 points and 3.7 rebounds in 19.3 minutes over 19 games, including nine starts. Washington went 6-3 when he started. But soon enough, Oubre was back out of Randy Wittman’s rotation behind veterans, including Gary Neal, who was a one-year rental without a future in Washington, and then Marcus Thornton, another rental. “I think you saw some improvement on him and when he had an opportunity to play, he had some nice moments,” Grunfeld said. “You can see that he’s a very talented individual, while still very young obviously. When he had opportunities early in the season, he had some good moments late in the season he had some good moments. But you can’t play everybody.”