 Here are three cornerbacks the Redskins could draft - The Washington Post
Washington needs to add talent to its secondary in next week’s NFL draft. Personally, I don’t believe this cornerback class is particularly deep, but that doesn’t mean the bank is completely empty. There are still players in the first few rounds who could certainly help Washington. Here’s a look at three corners that could fit. Mackensie Alexander, Clemson Alexander is one of the top corners in this draft class. While he’s slightly smaller than ideal size at 5 feet 10, 190 pounds, he makes up for it with attitude and football intelligence. He’s a feisty guy who isn’t afraid to talk to opposing receivers and play the mental game. When it comes to coverage, Alexander has plenty of talent to back up the talk. He’s physical, willing to jam receivers at the line of scrimmage in press coverage. But he’s also capable of playing off and reading the play while dropping into his zone.   [Corner overview: No interceptions, no problem for Alexander]   What makes Alexander stand out is his play recognition. He does an excellent job understanding what the weaknesses in his defense are and how the offense will look to attack them. He knows when to be disciplined and maintain his responisbility and when he can cheat and help someone else. It’s clear he puts in time in the film room, studying tendencies of opposing offenses and receivers. The knock against Alexander, other than his size, is his production. He had no interceptions during his time at Clemson and not many passes defended. But Alexander points to that being a sign quarterbacks deliberately chose not to throw the ball his way. I would highly recommend reading Doug Farrar’s piece on watching film with Alexander, where he explains this in greater detail. One other note I had on him was that he can get a little bit too handsy at times. He sometimes grabs on to receivers down the field, which would often result in a penalty at the next level. But many corners have to make this adjustment going into the NFL and it’s certainly not something that will have much impact on where he gets drafted. Projection: First round Kendall Fuller, Virginia Tech Having torn the meniscus in his right knee, Fuller lost much of his 2015 season. He showed character and toughness trying to play through it, but eventually had to have surgery to repair it. When healthy, Fuller is a corner best suited to zone-based defenses. He is quick to read and react to plays in front of him. His short-area quickness enables him to jump underneath routes and recover if he is beaten quickly off the snap.   [The top 10 cornerbacks in the NFL draft]   However, Fuller does lack long speed, meaning faster wide receivers in the NFL could get the better of him running deep. He also has a tendency to bite on double moves; Ohio State’s Mike Thomas burned him a couple of times this year. He also needs to learn to turn his head and locate the football. On the few plays he was beaten over the top, he would focus on the receiver, playing the man and not the ball. That can lead to pass interference penalties, as it did a few times in the games I watched him. If allowed to play primarily in zone schemes, Fuller could thrive and make use of his quick reactions and ball skills. He had eight interceptions and 35 passes defended in his college career. Teams will like his toughness and aggressiveness. Reports suggest his coaches at Virginia Tech raved about his football IQ and his willingness to accept coaching. He’s a willing special teamer, which will only make coaches like him more. Projection: Second or third round Will Redmond, Mississippi State Redmond is one of the most fluid athletes in this cornerback class. He has lightning-quick feet and smooth hips that allow him to change direction quickly without losing speed. He makes use of this athleticism to mirror receivers, sticking to them in man coverage and not allowing much separation out of breaks. In the games I watched, I saw him do an excellent job in press coverage, showing receivers to the boundaries and closing the throwing window for the quarterback. One criticism of Redmond’s game is his tackling. He shows a willingness and aggressiveness to get involved in the run game. He reads and diagnoses run plays quickly, but when it comes to breaking down and tackling, he misses too often. At times, he’ll try to go for the knockout punch, instead of just wrapping up. Too many extra yards were given up when he was in position to make a tackle. That will be a concern, but tackling technique can be taught as long as he is willing to play physically, which he appears to be. He’s coming off a torn anterior cruciate ligament, which will need to be cleared by NFL doctors. That might limit his ability to make an impact early in his career, which could cause him to fall in the draft. But his athleticism and coverage skills make him attractive. He has the versatility to play both outside and over the slot, which will also catch the eye of NFL personnel. Projection: Third round Mark Bullock is The Insider’s Outsider, sharing his Redskins impressions without the benefit of access to the team. For more breakdowns, click here.  More from The Post: NFL draft: What Redskins could & should do at linebacker Another huge trade, another fresh mock draft Jean Francois does not want you to read this RGIII post More NFL: Redskins | League news | Draft coverage Follow: @MikeJonesWaPo | @lizclarketweet | @MasterTes