 Dusty Baker sticks to his lineup thanks to Nationals’ hot start - The Washington Post
PHILADELPHIA — One of the obvious benefits to starting a season strong, like these 8-1 Nationals have, is not starting a season badly. Bad starts cause panic. Good starts give leeway. “You hope that you (get off to a good start). The thing that you’re always afraid of is getting off to that bad start,” Nationals manager Dusty Baker said. “You always want to win that first one…this year, the Minnesota Twins looked awesome when we faced them at home, then they got off to a bad start. So you never really know.” The Nationals have been tested early — with in-game adversity, at least — needing comebacks and gutsy bullpen showings to start the way they have. Baker knew he had a talented and professional team when he took over, then saw it in spring training. Asked what he has learned about this team through the first nine games of the season, Baker identified determination. “They don’t like to lose. You know you’re gonna lose some, but you just can’t visualize it really or even picture it,” Baker said. “Once you start winning, it becomes contagious. We’re not even as good as we can get yet.” But winning can mask weaknesses, can convince the unwary that they can get by on bad habits. Baker remembered working for Al Rosen in San Francisco and recalled Rosen getting more upset after certain wins than after losses because he saw bad habits rewarded. Baseball seasons have ups and downs. Managers must manage both. “Sometimes, you have to be a little sterner and a little tougher on them when you’re winning I think,” Baker said. “When you’re losing, that’s when you gotta back off and show a little compassion, unless you see a bad attitude or a complacent attitude. Right now, I’m just letting ’em be.” Baker is sticking to the lineup that got the Nationals here for Saturday night’s game against young Aaron Nola and the Phillies. That lineup is below. Discuss below that, if you wish. LINEUP Taylor CF Rendon 3B Harper RF Zimmerman 1B Murphy 2B Werth LF Ramos C Espinosa SS Scherzer P