 Four Eastern conference X-factors who will influence the NBA playoffs - The Washington Post
Much more than the regular season, in the NBA playoffs specific advantages can persist from game-to-game. Players often step up or fall back as much because of these matchup advantages as the normal variation in performance that occurs over a season. Identifying the possible X-factors in each series is often difficult beforehand, but below are players who might swing each of the four Eastern Conference series. C.J. Miles, Indiana Pacers The Pacers’ best chance is probably the same as it is for underdogs everywhere — increase the variance at play. In this case, bomb away from three.  The most likely source for an injection of three-point shooting is swingman C.J. Miles. In wins, he has sported a 55.9 percent effective field goal percentage while in losses he has been well below par at only 47.1 percent. Nearly all of this difference has resulted from his accuracy beyond the arc (38.5 percent in wins vs. 34.5 percent in losses.) Indiana likely needs the more prolific version to have much of a chance of pulling an upset. Complicating matters is the shoulder injury Miles suffered toward the end of the season, putting additional strain on the Pacers depth. Josh Richardson, Miami Heat The Miami Heat have snuck up on the rest of the Eastern Conference. Written off after a recurrence of Chris Bosh’s blood clot problems, which ended the all-star’s season for the second year running, Miami has used a resurgent Joe Johnson and strong bench play (notably from Hassan Whiteside) to roll to the third seed and home court advantage of the Hornets. One of the biggest factors in the effectiveness of that bench has been the play of guard Josh Richardson. The rookie out of Tennessee was in the D-League as recently as January, but since the all-star break, he has used his size (a lanky 6’6), athleticism and surprising shooting stroke (and absurd 48-90 from three point range over that stretch) to great acclaim, culminating with Richardson being named the Eastern conference rookie of the month for March.  His emergence negates what might otherwise be an edge for Charlotte where the dynamic driving ability of Jeremy Lin has been an important change of pace from starter Kemba Walker over the course of the season. Dennis Schroeder, Atlanta Hawks The ball-hawking combo of Avery Bradley and Marcus Smart alongside the toughness and anticipation of Jae Crowder pushed Boston to second in the NBA in total steals and third in opponents’ turnover rate. This puts a lot of pressure squarely on Hawks’ third year point guard Dennis Schroeder. What @DennisMike93 did Tuesday made him an easy choice for the Larceny Bourbon Steal of the Week:https://t.co/NrndtDyG6I — Atlanta Hawks (@ATLHawks) April 8, 2016  The young German had an up and down season, occasionally losing time in the rotation to either Shelvin Mack before the trade deadline or Kirk Hinrich after, while other times closing games instead of 2015 all-star Jeff Teague. According to SportVU data, Schroeder was 11th in the NBA in time of possession percentage — the amount of time he possessed the ball per minute played. Whether he can be productive and avoid turnovers when he is controlling the offense to that degree could be the difference between the Celtics ripping off big runs at the start of the second and fourth quarters, or the Hawks maintaining the advantages that their superior starting lineup might build. Kevin Love, Cleveland Cavaliers The Cavaliers are overwhelming favorites here. Not only is Cleveland the deeper and more talented roster, the matchup edges that can often swing playoff series are not favorable to Detroit either. So with the series likely being short and to the point, more interesting to watch for will be indications of what the Cavs might look like moving deeper into the postseason. Notably, what will they get out of Kevin Love?  In his second year in Cleveland, the power forward has continued to struggle to fit alongside James and Irving and has largely been relegated to a spot up shooting role. Unfortunately, he has also stopped making jump shots, hitting only 32.9 percent of his catch and shoot three pointers since the all-star break. After his early exit with a shoulder injury in last year’s first round, both the Cavs and Love himself need to see some proof Love is a championship contention-level compliment to James.