 NFL draft: What the Redskins could and should do at cornerback - The Washington Post
Insider’s draft overviews: Quarterback | O-line | D-line | Corner | Safety What Washington should do at quarterback, O-line, D-line & safety Detailed top 10s: QB | RB | WR | TE: Not the year to need one Roughly two weeks before the NFL draft gets underway in Chicago on April 28, the Redskins took out a significant insurance policy in their cornerback ranks by signing seven-year NFL veteran Greg Toler to a one-year deal. Toler’s signing gives the Redskins another seasoned cornerback who ought to be able to step in if Chris Culliver’s return from reconstructive surgery on his right knee is delayed. The 6-foot, 190-pound Toler spent his first four seasons with the Arizona Cardinals, who selected him in the fourth round of the 2009 draft out of Division II St. Paul’s College in Virginia. His last three seasons were spent in Indianapolis, where he started 32 of the 34 games in which he appeared. Culliver, the team’s most costly free-agent acquisition last offseason when he signed a four-year deal worth as much as $32 million, tore both his ACL and MCL during a Thanksgiving Day practice, with six games remaining. He had torn the ACL in his left knee during his time in San Francisco. For an athlete at a skill position, who relies on explosiveness and the ability to make quick cuts, the injury is difficult to rebound from, with six to nine months the timetable for resuming any serious work. And if Culliver’s on track, the 31-year-old Toler ought to push him, and the other cornerbacks on the Redskins roster, as Joe Barry works to add toughness and playmaking ability to the defensive backfield. So for now, the Redskins aren’t short on bodies at cornerback — a group that’s led by starter Bashaud Breeland, who’s entering his third NFL season. They re-signed nine-year veteran Will Blackmon, whose performance was encouraging after they signed after the first game of the season. Blackmon started 10 of the 15 games in which he appeared in for Washington, including the final six, and tallied 49 tackles, three forced fumbles and two interceptions. The versatile Kyshoen Jarrett, whose rookie campaign ended because of a shoulder injury in the season-finale against Dallas, hopes to be full-go for training camp. If so, he could be an asset at both corner, safety and on special teams. Rounding out the ranks are second-year player Quinton Dunbar, whose conversion from college wide receiver to NFL defensive back remains a work in progress, and Deshazor Everett. All told, the Redskins are in reasonably good shape at cornerback entering the draft, so it’s not a position of dire need. If General Manager Scot McCloughan keeps the team’s 21st overall pick, rather than trading down, most analysts expect he’ll take one of the standouts in a loaded class of defensive tackles— whether that’s Alabama’s A’Shawn Robinsons or Jarran Reed or Baylor’s Andrew Billings. Still, it would be wise to start grooming a young cornerback to complement Breeland. It’s all but certain that Florida’s Vernon Hargreaves will be long gone by the Redskins’ first selection. So, too, will Florida State’s Jalen Ramsey, a safety who appears on many draft boards and mock drafts as a cornerback. Ohio State’s Eli Apple boasts appealing size, at 6-1 and 199 pounds, but he’s projected to go in the middle of the first round. Another option might be turning to Clemson’s Mackensie Alexander, who checks many of the boxes McCloughan favors — tough, competitive, with big-game experience on a major college team — but lacks prototypical NFL size for a defensive back. Kendall Fuller, the fourth in a line of brothers who played for Virginia Tech, hopes to join his siblings in the NFL. Pegged as a first-round pick at the start of the 2015 college season, Fuller has slid back a bit because he’s still recovering from knee surgery last fall and was unable to work out a the NFL Combine or on his recent pro day. More from The Post: Redskins schedule released: Monday night opener vs. Steelers Let’s just call this Rams-Titans trade a reverse-RGIII The Rams just traded for the No. 1 pick. Here’s how they should use it More NFL: Redskins | League-wide news | Insider’s draft coverage Follow: @MikeJonesWaPo | @lizclarketweet | @MasterTes | @Insider