 President Obama helps Curry out with his jumpshot in ‘The Mentorship’ - The Washington Post
President Barack Obama and Golden State Warriors guard Steph Curry took a moment before the NBA playoffs to remind viewers of two things: Mentors play vital roles in the lives of young children and you should always keep your elbow tucked in when you go up for a shot. The segment, entitled, “The Mentorship,” aired on NBA Countdown on ABC Saturday afternoon, ahead of the first-round matchup between the Warriors and Houston Rockets. In the video, the duo made use of several humorous bits to reiterate the importance of community role models in the lives of young children, including a shot of Obama helping Curry with his revered jumpshot. The public service announcement was completed via “MENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership,” and was further supported by Obama’s “My Brother’s Keeper” initiative. “My Brother’s Keeper” is an initiative by Obama to ensure that all children, especially young males of color, have the opportunity to be mentored and guided by a responsible community role model. The video opens with Obama leaning over the reigning NBA MVP’s shoulder at a White House desk to go over annotations the President made to Curry’s resumé. Obama suggests to the 28-year old that being an “incredible dancer” may not help him secure the right job and that clip art is probably not appropriate for his resumé. The pair go on to play Connect Four — Obama wins and, once again, roasts Curry by imitating the star player’s signature celebration hop. They also build and test a papier-maché volcano and read aloud from the President’s 2006 book, “The Audacity of Hope.” Obama is shown helping out the sharpshooter with his jumpshot, reminding him to keep his elbow tucked before Curry suggests that he should “shoot lefty,” a nod to the Commander-in-Chief’s southpaw approach on the court. It might be of note that Curry finished the 2015-16 regular season with 402 made 3-pointers, the most in NBA history. This is not the first time Curry and the Obamas have paired up — just 11 days ago, Curry and his wife, Ayesha Curry, were shown dancing alongside First Lady Michelle Obama in celebration of turnips being planted in the Kitchen Garden. Judging by the fact that Curry is wearing the same suit and watch in the PSA that he is in the turnip video, it would appear as though both videos were filmed during the family’s February White House visit.