 Why the Capitals quietly recalled an extra goaltender before Game 4 - The Washington Post
After Braden Holtby’s injury scare in practice Tuesday — a teammate collided with him — updates on the Washington Capital turned into a vine of Holtby walking the corridors of Wells Fargo Center with a plate of food (and more importantly, no limp). He assured reporters the next day that he was fine and would start Game 4 against the Philadelphia Flyers, which he did, and that appeared to be that. But the whole episode provided a window into the existence of a backup goaltender, who typically doesn’t play in the postseason unless something has gone very wrong. Philipp Grubauer hoped his teammate wasn’t hurt, but he was also confident to step in if needed. Then on Wednesday afternoon, the Capitals quietly recalled goaltender Dan Ellis from their American Hockey League affiliate for what the team said were precautionary reasons, and he was listed as a scratch. “Just the thought on that was Hershey was busing up to Portland, [Maine], so we felt that just in case one of our goalies went down for any reason, that we’d have a third one in here,” Coach Barry Trotz said. “The plan would be for Dan to just fly up [to Portland], and he was happy with that, rather than going 10 hours on a bus, so it made total sense for us to do that.” Trotz said it wasn’t because of the collision on Holtby the day before. “That wasn’t really a concern,” Trotz said. The Capitals just wanted an extra goaltender nearby in case of an injury during the game, so that they then wouldn’t have to fly someone in from Maine. In Washington’s first-round series last year, Holtby got ill before Game 2, and Grubauer, then the top goalie with the Hershey Bears, was recalled to make his playoff debut against the New York Islanders. He allowed three goals on 21 shots against, but the Capitals got the win. “It happened pretty quick,” Grubauer said. “… If something happens – hope not – then I will be there, and mentally and physically, it doesn’t change anything for me.” Grubauer lost his last four starts of the season, though the Capitals were shut out in three of them. He said the extra work before and after practices with goaltending coach Mitch Korn helps him stay sharp in case he’s needed, the routine not changing from the regular season. He didn’t see what happened to Holtby in practice on Tuesday other than noticing something was wrong in the corner of his eye, as skaters were still shooting at him. “You never know what’s going to happen,” Grubauer said. “You always got to be ready, and nothing really changed for me compared to the regular season. I still prepare the same way in playoffs as I did in the regular season.”