 NBA Playoffs: Bradley injury makes Celtics’ lineup issues even greater - The Washington Post
At halftime of Game 1 between the Atlanta Hawks and Boston Celtics, it looked like Boston was on its way to being blown out by 30 points. The Celtics shot a ghastly 12-for-52 from the field in the first half, trailed by 17 and looked hopelessly out of the game. Things were much different after the break, though. The Celtics made a lineup switch, went small and pressured the Hawks, getting the game out in transition – where they excel – and avoiding being stuck in half-court offensive possessions – where they struggle. All of that, though, was predicated on the Celtics being able to run their optimal small lineup; one that features Isaiah Thomas, Avery Bradley and Jae Crowder with another wing and a lone big. That changed midway through the fourth quarter when Bradley pulled up and grabbed for his right hamstring. Bradley is an underrated player; he was a first-team All-Defense selection by The Washington Post, and in addition he’s a 36-percent three-point shooter. While that’s not outstanding, it’s the best of all the guards and wings the Celtics have to offer. And that’s why his loss could prove to be so painful. Bradley going down meant that key shots from long range down the stretch were being taken by Marcus Smart (25 percent) and Evan Turner (24 percent). The Hawks will gladly allow them to take those shots. Thomas admitted postgame that the Celtics don’t like to play in the halfcourt offensively, and anyone watching the game would see why. That’s why going small was so important for Boston; it allowed the Celtics to speed the game up and force turnovers to create transition opportunities. Without Bradley (who said postgame he heard a “pop”, which is always a bad sign), going small will be much more difficult to do. Here are some other thoughts on the game: — While the lineup issues are a problem for Boston, here is a bigger one: Atlanta has the two best players in this series in Paul Millsap and Al Horford. An NBA truism in any playoff series is to take the team with the best player in most circumstances; picking against the team with both the two best, and homecourt advantage, is perilous at best, and suicidal at worst. And both Horford and Millsap – though Horford, in particular – showed why in this game, dominating at both ends. — SB Nation’s Paul Flannery made a smart observation early in the game, saying that Celtics coach Brad Stevens needed to change the starting lineup to better combat Atlanta’s athleticism. Sure enough, that’s what Stevens did, inserting Evan Turner for Amir Johnson to begin the second half, and seeing positive results. My guess at the starting lineup for Game 2 (with no Bradley), is that same smaller lineup, but with Marcus Smart playing in Bradley’s place. That’ll give the Celtics a chance to keep the defensive intensity and transition opportunities up, even if it will cost them some three-point shooting ability. — Last season, Dennis Schroder was a mess in the playoffs. It had appeared he’d overcome those issues this season, and turned himself into a contender for sixth man of the year while also making Jeff Teague potentially available at the trade deadline. But Schroder was back to his old self in Game 1, missing all six shots he took in 11 minutes. The Hawks are going to need better minutes from him as the series progresses. — Kyle Korver went just 1-for-10 from the field and 0-for-7 from three-point range in Game 1, including missing several open looks. That’s not something that’s going to last, in all likelihood – even though Korver hasn’t duplicated his play from last season this year. While Kent Bazemore is also not likely to duplicate his 23 points and eight rebounds from Game 1, as long as Korver knocks down shots when he isn’t hitting, the Hawks will be just fine. ***************************** Indiana 100, Toronto 90 No team in this year’s playoffs needs a win more than the Toronto Raptors. After dropping Game 1 at home each of the prior two seasons as the higher-seeded team, the Raptors desperately needed to get off on the right foot when they opened the NBA playoffs Saturday afternoon against the Indiana Pacers. Instead, it was more of the same. Toronto’s performance in a 100-90 loss to Indiana looked eerily similar to the way the Raptors played against both the Nets two years ago in a series they lost in seven games and in their four-game sweep at the hands of the Washington Wizards last year. The Raptors played tight, the crowd was even tighter, and the All-Star backcourt of Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan paled in comparison to Pacers star Paul George. Now it will be fascinating to see how the Raptors respond. Toronto is a wonderful city, but its fans and media can quickly take a negative look at things; there is a common belief up there that the NBA is out to get them, and that the world is conspired against them, too. That feeling was only exacerbated by Toronto coach Dwane Casey’s complaining this week that the NBA did the Raptors a disservice by having them play at 12:30 Saturday afternoon, instead of getting a prime-time game. After the past two seasons, Casey should’ve known the last thing the Raptors and their fans needed was to start focus on being disrespected again. Toronto has now lost seven straight playoff games, going back to the final two games of that series against the Nets in 2014. Perhaps instead of worrying about start times, Casey and the Raptors should’ve been worried about ending that streak. Here are some other thoughts on the game: — It was great to see Paul George back on the sport’s biggest stage playing like a superstar. When George broke his leg in gruesome fashion playing for Team USA in the summer of 2014, no one could be sure he’d ever get back to his place at the top of the league. But George looked like every bit the superstar he was prior to the injury in this one, scoring 33 points to go with four rebounds, six assists, four steals and two blocks. Meanwhile, he dominated DeRozan defensively, turning his All-Star counterpart into a complete non-factor – a very bad sign for the Raptors. — DeRozan wasn’t the only one who struggled. He and Lowry combined to go 8-for-32 from the field — including 1-for-10 from 3-point range — and 8-for-15 from the foul line. Toronto has no chance of finally getting out of the first round if that doesn’t change. The problem, though, is that it’s hard to see how it will. DeRozan has always struggled with length, and he was clearly overmatched by George whenever they were squared off against one another. Lowry has been playing through an elbow injury, and didn’t look good at all in Game 1. He, too, has a tough matchup whenever he’s being guarded by George Hill – another long, athletic defensive presence for Indiana. — Casey had a rough game. He only played DeRozan for 52 seconds when George wasn’t on the court Saturday; if he wants DeRozan to get going, that’s going to have to change as the series goes on. He played Terrence Ross for 13 minutes, in which Ross missed six shots, committed three fouls and two turnovers and generally didn’t help. Patrick Patterson and Cory Joseph both played well off the bench, but neither played nearly enough. Casey would be better off benching Luis Scola in favor of Patterson, leaving Ross nailed to the bench and going with an eight-man rotation. We’ll see if that changes. — Myles Turner was terrific off the bench for Indiana. His energy was useful at both ends, blocking several shots and creating a number of chances offensively. It was a very promising playoff debut for the rookie. — Frank Vogel should consider changing up his rotation a little bit. The second unit for the Pacers was out there with George Hill, Paul George and Monta Ellis all on the bench at the start of the second and fourth quarters, and both times the Pacers looked lost. If Vogel can keep one of that trio out there, at least, it would allow Indiana to have an offensive focal point on which to rely. — The Pacers won this game despite blowing multiple 3-on-1 opportunities completely. That is hard to do. — One positive for the Raptors: Jonas Valanciunas was a monster inside, finishing with 12 points, 19 rebounds and a blocked shot in 21 minutes despite playing in foul trouble most of the game and eventually fouling out. Indiana couldn’t keep a body on him. That said, Valanciunas has to do better than the 4-for-14 he shot from the floor. ***************************** Oklahoma City 108, Dallas 70 The Dallas Mavericks truly accomplished something by getting into the playoffs. With a makeshift roster and forced to deal with several injuries, including to Chandler Parsons, it would’ve been easy for Dallas to shut it down and go home for the summer. But while all of that is true, so is this: the Mavericks have no chance of winning against their first round opponent, the Oklahoma City Thunder. Oklahoma City jumped out to a 9-0 lead in Game 1 and never looked back, storming to a 108-70 victory over the Mavericks that wasn’t as close as even that score indicated. Dirk Nowitzki was his usual terrific self, finishing with 18 points, but at one point late in the third quarter he’s posted that tally and no other Dallas player had four. The Mavericks simply don’t have the horses to keep up with the Thunder; that’s the case when they are healthy, let alone when they are not. This circumstance served as proof of how Oklahoma City can completely overwhelm its opponents with talent and athleticism. It’s when the Thunder are at their best, and they proved it in Game 1. Here are some other thoughts on the game: — The lack of competition in this series is going to make it difficult to figure out exactly what to make of Billy Donovan and some of the new pieces on the Thunder. There isn’t going to be pressure on guys like Dion Waiters and Enes Kanter to perform in this series like there will be against San Antonio in the next round. That’s not what the Thunder needed, as Oklahoma City would’ve been better off with having a series to test things out against somewhat legitimate competition instead of this. — Watching this game, it truly is remarkable that Carlisle and Nowitzki managed to coax this Dallas team into the playoffs. The Mavs simply doesn’t have much to work with. Ever year the Mavericks impress with their preparation and execution no matter what talent they have, and this one is no different. It’s just disappointing they don’t have a better chance to make this series competitive.    