 Warriors should be extremely cautious with Stephen Curry’s ankle - The Washington Post
After the Golden State Warriors opened up a 33-15 lead after the first quarter of Saturday’s opening game of their best-of-seven first round playoff series against the Houston Rockets, it was clear the only way this series had a chance of being competitive was if Golden State suffered a significant injury. And it appeared that was exactly what happened. The sight absolutely no basketball fan wants to see these days is Stephen Curry, a virtual lock to repeat as the league’s most valuable player, limping to the bench with an ankle injury. But Curry left the game in the second quarter because of a “tweak” to his right ankle. He came back  for the third quarter in a game Golden State had comfortably in hand. After playing a few minutes, Coach Steve Kerr pulled him from the game, and his night was done. Now his status for the remainder of the series could be in doubt. Kerr said after Golden State’s 104-78 victory over Houston that Curry is questionable for Monday’s Game 2 back at Oracle Arena in Oakland.   [Once an NBA question mark, Stephen Curry has become a human exclamation point]   “We are not going to let him play,” Kerr said, “if there is any chance of making it worse.” And, frankly, that’s the only way the Warriors can responsibly approach this situation. Look, there’s no reason to think the Warriors can’t win the next three games against the Rockets – a team that Saturday looked very ready to begin its summer vacation – even if Curry doesn’t play. But if the league’s MVP suffers any kind of long-term issue with his ankles — and Curry had surgery on his right ankle, the same one he injured Saturday —  that limits him as the playoffs go on, things could get a lot tougher for Golden State in either its likely second-round matchup against the Los Angeles Clippers or in the Western Conference finals against the San Antonio Spurs or Oklahoma City Thunder. That’s why the Warriors should take the utmost caution with Curry, and keep him strapped to the bench until he is 100 percent healthy. It’s remarkable that this matchup is such a pushover for Golden State that benching Curry for the remainder of the series, if necessary, is such a non-issue. But it is hard to think any differently after watching the Rockets play in Game 1, and seeing the same listless and indifferent play that has defined Houston’s entire season.   [NBA Playoffs; Same old Raptors can’t get it done in Game 1 loss to Indiana]   The Rockets were in the Western Conference finals less than a year ago with almost the exact same team. But they never came close to replicating that form this season, and were openly at odds with each other on the court at times during Game 1. The fact Warriors forward Draymond Green came into his postgame press conference and needled Houston for failing to get Dwight Howard involved earlier in the game – a bone of contention between Howard and Houston’s other star, James Harden, this season – was both a subtle jab at the opposition and a concerted effort to try and get into Houston’s heads. But none of that will matter much in the end. The Warriors have far too many options for Houston to try and combat. One lineup that made some sense for Houston to use – playing Howard and fellow big man Clint Capela together to try and take advantage of Golden State’s lack of size – never happened. Meanwhile, Golden State kept Harden from getting to the foul line once, and while Curry didn’t score in the second half and Klay Thompson struggled with his shot, the Warriors still finished with eight players scoring at least seven points, and maintained a comfortable lead for the final 36 minutes of the game. Understandably, though, the focus throughout the second half and after the game was on Curry, and what his status will be moving forward. Curry himself said that he thought the 48 hours between the end of Golden State’s game Saturday and the start of Game 2 Monday night would be more than enough to get him ready to play, and hopefully he’s right. There’s nothing as fun in the NBA as watching Curry go off these days. That should only happen, though, if Curry is completely ready to play. If not, he should take it easy and let his teammates do the rest. Given the level of resistance Houston applied in Game 1, they should be more than up to the task.