 Nate Schmidt doesn’t see much ice time in playoff debut - The Washington Post
The Washington Capitals’ only two playoff rookies make up their third defensive pair. Dmitry Orlov and Nate Schmidt were both on the roster during the playoffs last season, but neither was considered ready. But after an injured defense leaned on both throughout the season, there wasn’t a question of trust from the coaching staff. “Once the anthem started and you could kind of feel the energy, and the little extra added emotion and energy in the building, that’s when I started getting a little nervous about everything,” Schmidt said. “It was good butterflies.” While both Schmidt and Orlov made their NHL playoff debuts on Thursday night against the Philadelphia Flyers in a 2-0 Washington win, Schmidt took just one shift in the third period. He finished with 7 minutes 2 seconds of ice time, and just 5:06 of that was at even strength. Coach Barry Trotz said Schmidt not playing much in the second half of the game was not related to an injury and commented that Schmidt, as usual, was smiling after the game. “If you were a fan and you got the ability to sit on the bench, you’d be smiling, too,” Trotz said on Friday. Since defenseman John Carlson came back from a lower-body injury on March 25, the Capitals have rotated some of their defensive pairs. Karl Alzner and Matt Niskanen have stayed together, but Carlson has skated with both Schmidt and Brooks Orpik, and Orpik has also been paired with Orlov at times. This was done in part to give Washington some flexibility for matchups. A Carlson-Orpik pair is a better defensive option against an opponent’s top line, but if you want a faster defensive pair with more offensive upside, Schmidt-Carlson could be your choice. Assistant coach Todd Reirden said the top-four of Alzner, Niskanen, Carlson and Orpik would be leaned on heavily in the playoffs, with Orlov and Schmidt getting protected minutes to be put in a situation to succeed. But on Thursday night, Orlov got 11:18, taking several shifts with Orpik as the team appeared to roll five defensemen in the second half of the game. That was in part because of the bevy of penalties for both sides (Orlov is on the power play) and Philadelphia second-line center Sean Couturier getting injured after a hit by Alex Ovechkin, so the Flyers leaned more heavily on their top forward lines. That affected what defensemen were on the ice for matchup purposes. “At this point, as long as you’re in the lineup and your team’s winning, it doesn’t matter at this point, for me at least,” Schmidt said. “It was the way things went, you know? Couturier goes down and their lines started moving around and they wanted to get the matchups they wanted to get, and hey, that’s just the way it goes.” The Capitals had an optional skate on Saturday, but here’s how the lineup looked in Friday’s practice: Forwards Alex Ovechkin-Nicklas Backstrom-T.J. Oshie Andre Burakovsky-Evgeny Kuznetsov-Justin Williams Jason Chimera-Mike Richards-Marcus Johansson Daniel Winnik-Jay Beagle-Tom Wilson Defensemen Karl Alzner-Matt Niskanen Brooks Orpik-John Carlson Dmitry Orlov-Nate Schmidt Goaltenders Braden Holtby (starter) Phillipp Grubauer Scratches Mike Weber Taylor Chorney Michael Latta Stanislav Galiev