 Bryce Harper hits fifth HR and Max Scherzer cruises as Nats rout Phillies, 8-1 - The Washington Post
 PHILADELPHIA — As Max Scherzer arrived at second base in the fourth inning of Saturday night’s 8-1 win over the Philadelphia Phillies, he shuffled his feet, then looked around, wild-eyed.  The Washington Nationals’ ace hunted frantically for the ball, looking to turn two bases into three. When he did not find it, he bustled back to the base and took a deep breath. Eyes wide, perhaps somewhat surprised to be there at all, he clenched his fists in quiet celebration. His two-out, two-run double, his first hit of the season, had come after the Phillies walked Danny Espinosa to get to him. So goes this young Nationals season. They are 9-1, off to the fastest start in franchise history, constantly looking for more and finding it nightly. Their individual and collective success continued Saturday, when Scherzer shut the Phillies down, Bryce Harper’s home run total went up and the lineup remained steady. “Offense comes out early, scores runs the past few games, and the pitchers are feeding off that,” Scherzer said. “We just got a good thing going.”  [Dusty Baker sticks to his lineup thanks to team’s hot start]  Scherzer worked seven innings of one-run ball, dominant for stretches, gritty in jams. He struck out seven and walked one, allowing five hits, though he fell behind enough that his pitch count climbed late. The run he conceded came when catcher Cameron Rupp beat him on a 3-2 fastball, another deep count. “I didn’t attack well,” Scherzer said, “but I pitched well.”  Scherzer finished with 108 pitches. His change-up moved, his curveball bit and his fastball jumped. Nationals starters are pitching to a 1.93 ERA and, for the fifth straight game, allowed two earned runs or fewer. For the third time this season, too, a Nationals starter got a hit.  Harper, meanwhile, extended a remarkable streak of success at Citizens Bank Park with his ­2-for-3 evening. The 23-year-old has five straight games of at least two hits and one home run at the Phillies’ stadium. He also now has 102 career home runs, three in his past three games and five in 10 games this season. “I just love playing here,” Harper said. “I see the ball really well here.”  Around Harper, the lineup as a whole is sticking to Baker’s plan, scoring early and running often, with eight first-inning runs over the past two games.   [Harper named to Sports Illustrated’s ‘Fashionable 50’]  On Saturday, the Nationals gave Scherzer three first-inning runs, which was plenty for the 2013 Cy Young Award winner. Michael A. Taylor walked, then Anthony Rendon singled him to third. Harper hit a sacrifice fly, Ryan Zimmerman singled Rendon home, and Daniel Murphy tripled home Zimmerman.  “[Scoring early] is what we concentrated on in spring training,” Baker said. “I’m hoping for good things to come like this for us. If we can keep jumping ’em, that’s big time.” The Nationals got Murphy to add left-handed depth to their lineup; he has given them a legitimate middle-of-the-order threat. By the time he hit that triple, Murphy had reached base in 21 of 36 plate appearances, with seven extra-base hits in 29 at-bats. He finished 1 for 4 with a RBI, a down night by his standards, but with a .538 on-base percentage. Wilson Ramos got a hit in his fifth straight game with a double into the left field corner. The bench chipped in, as well; Chris Heisey had a homer while pinch-hitting in the ninth, the 12th of his career. The offense has scored 16 runs in its past two games after scoring 15 in its first four. “Every night you go out there, you want to play hard and play well and do what you can to win ballgames,” Harper said. “. . . That’s what we’re going to do.” As the Nationals have hoarded wins and individual statistics, Baker has been grateful but unsatisfied. After Friday night’s game, he pointed out that some hitters are not hitting the way their résumés suggest they can — “on the interstate,” he joked, referring to batting averages that begin with the number one.  [Joe Ross is dominant in his first two starts of 2016]  Baker did not name names, but Taylor, Zimmerman, Jayson Werth and Espinosa still look unsettled at times. Zimmerman earned his second RBI with that first-inning single. Taylor, Werth and Espinosa went hitless. Baker said he hopes he will see his whole lineup clicking someday soon. In the meantime, he does not worry that the winning will make others complacent.  “I haven’t seen [that] yet,” Baker said. “. . . I think we’d worry about something that’s not even worth worrying about until it rears its ugly head. And maybe it won’t.” The Nationals have won seven straight games and will attempt a second straight series sweep Sunday afternoon. They have the best record in the majors. Their starters are dominating, their MVP is hitting, and their lineup is producing. And they, like their manager — like Scherzer on second — are still searching for more. 