 NFL draft linebackers overview: Darron Lee makes compelling case as new-era LB - The Washington Post
Insider’s draft overviews: QB | WR | OL | DL| CB | Safety What Washington should do at QB, WR, OL, DL, CB & Safety Detailed top 10s by position: QB | RB | WR | TE | OL | LB | Pass rushers | CB At 6 feet 1 and 232 pounds, Darron Lee hardly looms as the prototypical hulking NFL linebacker of old. But in just two seasons’ work at Ohio State, the redshirt sophomore who has yet to turn 22 has proven that he can get a linebacker’s job done with rare athleticism, a keen sense for where the ball is heading and an understanding of the pursuit angles that will get him there. Lee dazzled in on the field workouts at February’s NFL combine, posting the top performance among players at his position in four of the six drills, including a 4.47 time in the 40-yard dash. And he backed up the performance at Ohio State’s pro day.   [OLB Myles Jack is so good he’s worth the injury risk]   That’s part of the reason Lee is projected as a mid-to-late first-round pick in the 2016 NFL draft, which gets underway April 28 in Chicago, slotted not far behind UCLA’s Myles Jack. That said, most draft analysts say Lee must add a bit more weight and hone his tackling technique to reach his potential in the pros. But his upside, many believe, is too compelling to pass on in an era in which quarterbacks are getting rid of the ball quickly and skill players are ever faster. Lee makes the case himself, casting himself as a new breed of NFL linebacker, well suited to the modern-day pro game. “I feel linebackers are changing in the league, to be honest – a lot smaller. There aren’t really too many bigger guys,” Lee told reporters at the combine. “The game is getting faster, and you need guys to cover.”   [Outsider: What’s on the line at combine for Lee and Cravens]   Lee played quarterback and defensive back at Ohio’s New Albany High School. Ohio State recruiters scooped him up, not entirely surely where he’d line up but sure they wanted him on the Buckeyes’ roster. The transition to linebacker was smooth, Lee told reporters in February, because of the support he got from his Ohio State teammates and coaches and his background on both sides of the ball. In a word, he understood quarterbacks’ tendencies. “When quarterbacks do little subtle things, picking up on those is a lot easier for me than say the next guy,” Lee said. “And some of the stuff I did as a quarterback — being agile and being able to move — that helps with playmaking on the defensive side of the ball.”   [Georgia OLB Leonard Floyd among the athletic freaks at the combine]   After redshirting his first season in Columbus, shouldering scout-team duty at safety and linebacker, Lee started all 15 games the next season and helped the Buckeyes to the national championship. At strong-side linebacker, he piled up 81 tackles, 16.5 tackles for a loss and 7.5 sacks. And he earned Defensive MVP honors in the Sugar Bowl, tallying seven tackles and two sacks. Lee maintained the same standard as a redshirt sophomore, starting all 13 games and finishing with 66 tackles (11 for a loss) and 4.5 sacks in a hybrid role in which he covered tight ends, wide receivers and running backs. [Noah Spence visits Redskins | Ex-OSU player ready for the questions] Although young and undersize, Lee projects both the confidence of a first-round pick and the humility of an athlete who is aware that he’s a work-in-progress. “I’m still learning linebacker,” he noted. “It will be three years in a couple weeks I’ve been playing the position. I still have a lot to learn.” John Harris’s top 10 outside linebacker prospects: Harris’s top 10 inside linebacker prospects: Liz Clarke covers the Redskins for The Post. John Harris analyzes the draft for the Houston Texans and contributes to our NFL coverage. More from the Post: Griffin takes first snaps with Browns | Cleveland might trade pick, miss QB Wentz shows that QB camps might be ruining quarterbacks Redskins mailbag: Draft scenarios | Mock draft 3.0: Trade changes everything More NFL: Redskins | League-wide news | Insider’s draft coverage Follow: @MikeJonesWaPo | @lizclarketweet | @MasterTes | @Insider