 Max Scherzer wobbles in Nationals’ 5-1 loss to the Marlins - The Washington Post
 MIAMI — In quiet Marlins Park, in front of a peaceful Thursday afternoon crowd there to see the home team finish up a series with the Washington Nationals, the enthusiastic musings of hecklers echoed around the stadium. As Bryce Harper grabbed one last dose of pine tar and headed to the plate in the first inning, one such pontificator called to the reigning MVP. “Hey Bryce, you suck!” he hollered. Marlins starter Tom Koehler wound and fired. Harper swung and homered. His eighth home run of the season was one of two Nationals hits in an otherwise lackluster 5-1 get-away-day loss. “I don’t know if it was us or them,” Nationals Manager Dusty Baker said, “but it was just kind of a flat day.” The reality built by Harper’s unapologetic personality and prodigious talent includes boos before every at-bat he takes on the road — boos more audible in sparsely populated stadiums like Miami’s, which was as sluggish as the visiting team was Thursday. Harper homered in five of seven games on this road trip and drove in a run in all seven. But while the road trip ended the way it began for Harper, the Nationals ended it unfavorably. Their recent stretch of near-untouchable pitching did not last, as Max Scherzer struggled early. The lineup around Harper, still writhing in early season inconsistency, could not overcome the deficit. The Nationals finished the road trip with four wins and three losses, 11-4 overall. “You win the road trip,” Harper said. “That’s what we did.” Harper returns to Nationals Park leading the league in home runs (tied with Colorado’s Trevor Story), runs batted in and slugging percentage as of Thursday afternoon. The pitching staff entered Thursday leading the majors in ERA, with the stingiest rotation in baseball. After Scherzer struggled early, it may not begin Friday that way. Part of Scherzer’s game is his swagger, the stomping, the clenched fists, the competitiveness so all-encompassing that he will not even high-five his manager during starts. But in the first two innings Thursday, Scherzer lacked his usual sharpness, seemingly feeling for the strike zone, missing with everything. Scherzer judges his outings in part by first-pitch strikes. He threw them to fewer than half the 12 batters he faced in the first two innings as the Marlins opened up a 4-1 lead. Marcell Ozuna hit a towering three-run home run in the first. Martin Prado singled home a run in the second. By the time Scherzer got through two innings at an un-Scherzer-like crawl, the right-hander had thrown 55 pitches, allowed five hits and walked two without striking out a batter. “When I reflected on the outing and I looked at video I realized I’m just not finishing my pitches,” Scherzer said. “I’m just not getting through the ball and it’s just not me.” The 31-year-old said his trouble was not “a mechanical breakdown,” not “something that’s going to take a month” to fix, but will require an adjustment. He finished five innings on 99 pitches, allowed five earned runs on eight hits and struck out three. The last time he allowed at least five runs on eight or more hits while striking out so few was May 2012, when he was with the Detroit Tigers.  “Maxie’s a competitor. Every single time you go out there you think you’re going to get a win, and today just wasn’t a good day,” Harper said. “He’s the man though.” After Harper’s homer, Koehler — against whom Harper has six career home runs, against whom the Nationals had scored 30 runs in 602/3 innings coming into the game — shut the Nationals down. Catcher Wilson Ramos grounded to shortstop Adeiny Hechavarria to lead off the second inning and was ruled safe with a hit when Marlins first baseman Justin Bour dropped Hechavarria’s throw. The Nationals never struck again, not against Koehler in his five innings of one-run ball, or in four innings against the Marlins bullpen. In the past, Harper explained, Koehler would throw in the mid-90s, relying on his fastball. Today, more than ever, “he just pitched.”  “He’s pitching at 93, 92 with sink and cut — you know, really pitching,” Harper said. “. . . Really, you just gotta tip your cap, say that you got two out of four [wins in the series], and move on.” Second baseman Daniel Murphy was leading the majors in hitting coming into the game, but he had his 12-game hitting streak snapped with a hard-luck 0 for 4 that included two well-hit balls to right field. Michael A. Taylor, dropped from the leadoff spot for what Dusty Baker called a “mental day off,” was 0 for 3 with two strikeouts. Taylor finished the road trip 6 for 28 with 13 strikeouts. Shortstop Danny Espinosa went 0 for 2, 4 for 20 on the trip. Both are hitting below .200, not quite a tenth of the way through the season. After the Nationals scored 17 runs in the first two games of their first multi-city road trip, they scored 13 in the final five. They are seven games over .500 anyway. “It was a decent road trip, I’ll say that,” Baker said. “Could’ve been worse — that’s what decent is — and could’ve been better.”