 Flyers say Scott Laughton has been discharged from hospital - The Washington Post
Update (5:35 p.m.): The Flyers put out the following update on Scott Laughton, who was taken to the hospital after a violent collision into the boards in Game 4 between the Washington Capitals and Philadelphia: However, he will not accompany the team to Washington and we will have an update in the next couple of days. — Philadelphia Flyers (@NHLFlyers) April 21, 2016  Original post: After Scott Laughton’s scary collision into the Wells Fargo Center boards on Wednesday night, the Philadelphia Flyers haven’t released any update on the 21-year-old forward’s condition. Laughton was taken off the ice on a stretcher, and the team later announced he was taken to the hospital and would remain there overnight for precautionary reasons. On Thursday, Flyers Coach Dave Hakstol told reporters he didn’t have any further update. He also said he hadn’t spoken to Laughton. The team announced on Wednesday night that all tests done at the hospital were negative. Other members of the team provided more of an update, and it seems to be encouraging: Players say Scott Laughton will be discharged from Jefferson Hospital today and he's alert and talking. — Dave Isaac (@davegisaac) April 21, 2016  Simmonds on Laughton: "(Trainer Jim McCrossin) said he’s talking & everything. Obviously he’s moving & he’ll be out of the hospital today." — Stephen Whyno (@SWhyno) April 21, 2016  The Capitals expressed concern for Laughton after the game on Wednesday night. Capitals Coach Barry Trotz called it “a clean hockey play that sort of goes bad once in a while.” “You hit those boards at 30 miles per hour, it shakes you up pretty good,” Trotz said. “The first thing is you look for movement, and we saw a little bit of movement early and then he stayed still, which is probably the best thing. On our bench, we have concern. … It’s unfortunate those things happen. Guys get tangled up, guys lose an edge going to the boards, and those things are the dangers of our game.” What went down right before Laughton crashed into the boards #CapsFlyers pic.twitter.com/JSghzAfShr — CAPITALS HILL (@CapitalsHill) April 20, 2016  Said T.J. Oshie: “We definitely hope the best for him. It’s scary. I personally had a sick feeling in my stomach. For the most part, a lot of guys in this league have a lot of respect for each other, and you never like seeing a guy go down like that.”