 The Raptors seriously need to win a playoff series - The Washington Post
Over the past three seasons, the Toronto Raptors have forged the best era in the franchise’s 21 years in the NBA. Behind an All-Star backcourt in Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan, a quality coach in Dwane Casey and solid depth around them, the Raptors have won three straight Atlantic Division titles, and this season cracked 50 wins for the first time. None of that will matter, though, if Toronto can’t escape from the first round. Not only will it not matter, but if the No. 2-seeded Raptors can’t get past the Indiana Pacers and advance to the Eastern Conference Semifinals, it’s fair to wonder if this team will look remotely like what it is today when training camp opens this fall. No pressure, fellas. Game 3 of their first-round series looks Thursday night in Indianapolis. Through the opening two games of this series, Toronto has looked like a team that clearly remembers its playoff failings of the past two seasons. The Raptors were the only higher seed to lose a first-round series each year, losing in seven games to the Brooklyn Nets in 2014 before getting swept by the Washington Wizards a year ago. In response, Raptors general manager Masai Ujiri went out and signed players like Cory Joseph, DeMarre Carroll and Bismack Biyombo to bolster the team’s biggest shortcomings the last two seasons – defensive issues overall and against bigger wings specifically – and the result was Toronto winning more games this season, 56, than ever before.   [The Toronto Raptors are the NBA’s surprise team, but they have lots to prove in the playoffs.]   It was a heady few months for the city, as it hosted the All-Star Game for the first time, finished second in the Eastern Conference and impressed many to the point where the Raptors were at least given a puncher’s chance of troubling the Cleveland Cavaliers if they met in an Eastern Conference Final. But then came Game 1, and the resumption of everything that’s haunted this team the prior two postseasons. Lowry and DeRozan were awful, shooting a combined 8-for-32. Indiana’s star small forward, Paul George, ran roughshod over whatever defender the Raptors ran his way. And Toronto’s crowd – which, for all of its ferocity, is always ready to turn on the home team at the first sign of trouble – immediately sensed it could be in for another here-we-go-again moment. The Raptors recovered, at least to a degree, by pulling away to win Game 2 of this series Monday night. But even in that game, red flags remained. DeRozan continued to be awful, going 5-for-18 from the floor and clearly pressing to try and score. Carroll, after sitting out most of the season with multiple injuries, continues to look a step slow at both ends. Casey continued with some odd coaching decisions, including keeping Luis Scola in the starting lineup, and sticking with Terrence Ross – at least until Ross went out with concussion-like symptoms after a collision late in the second quarter. Despite all of that, Toronto managed to even the series, and headed to Indiana for Game 3 with every chance to take back control of the series. By all rights, they should be able to. Yes, the Pacers have the best player in this series in George, but his supporting cast is lacking. George Hill is a quality point guard, but Monta Ellis is a flawed shooting guard, Ian Mahinmi appears to be slowed by a back injury, rookie Myles Turner is still adjusting to his first postseason – despite some positive play so far – and the Pacers have a very weak second unit.   [Posting Up Podcast: Eric Koreen on the Toronto Raptors.]   Given the depth in both talent and experience that Toronto has at its disposal, this is a series that the Raptors should comfortably win. Yet, at least through two games, it’s hard to see that happening. And, if they somehow don’t, big changes could be ahead. DeRozan will be a free agent, and while he was terrific this season, averaging 23.5 points per game and making his second All-Star Game, he has real flaws. He’s a below-average three-point shooter, and he has proven each of the past two playoffs he can’t guard small forwards. Those two factors both severely limit a team’s ability to play small, as DeRozan – despite being 6-foot-7 – can’t shift to power forward. With all of that in mind, will Toronto be willing to pay him well over $100 million over the next five years to keep him away from, say, going home to his native Los Angeles to replace Kobe Bryant with the Lakers? Despite Ujiri’s assurances to the contrary, a loss in this series will almost certainly mark the end of Casey’s tenure in Toronto. Despite steadily guiding the team to improved records each of the past few seasons, three straight first-round losses would be too much for anyone to overcome. There could even be talk about potentially looking to deal Lowry, given he’d have two years remaining on his below-market contract and, at 30 years old, is reaching the point where smaller point guards begin to break down physically. So, for all of the success of the past three seasons in Toronto, the next few days – beginning with Game 3 – could wind up mattering more than all of it put together. It’s taken a long time for the franchise to get to this point, but a couple more losses could rapidly undo it all.