 Wizards hiring of Scott Brooks has upside, even if they don’t land Kevin Durant - The Washington Post
The Washington Wizards’ transparent preparations to lure Kevin Durant home this summer reached a new level of audacity Thursday. They hired Scott Brooks, Durant’s old coach, just eight days after discarding Randy Wittman.  It wasn’t a thorough coaching search in which Brooks’s name kept coming to the surface, either. It was a targeted, calculated pursuit that concluded with a bold financial agreement: five years, $35 million. That’s, like, Andray Blatche money. The $7 million-per-year price tag ties Brooks with Dallas Coach Rick Carlisle as the highest-paid pure coaches in the NBA. There are four other coaches at or above that salary — Doc Rivers, Gregg Popovich, Stan Van Gundy and the newly hired Tom Thibodeau — but they also have front office executive roles. The Wizards paying this much money solely for a man to roam the sidelines represents a refreshingly bold, all-in mentality, which was exactly what they needed to attract one of the biggest names in the coaching market. Get past the money and the unflinching willingness of President Ernie Grunfeld to make such a commitment to a top-notch candidate, and you’re left to ponder the upside of Brooks. He deserves to be looked at as more than Durant free agency bait, but that’s how he will be viewed until Decision 2016. It’s a corny thought to believe Durant will be swayed by the hiring of a coach whose job he didn’t try to save this time a year ago. (In an Instagram post, Durant called Brooks’s termination “tough” but said he supported the team’s decision “100 percent.”)  Nevertheless, Durant is surely a factor in the Wizards choosing Brooks, no matter how far down the list of reasons it was. And with all current indications suggesting that Durant is unlikely to prefer a homecoming, it sets up the real intrigue behind the selection of Brooks. Who is Brooks without Durant? For most of his seven seasons as a head coach, Brooks hasn’t had to answer that question. With Durant as his star player, Brooks posted a .620 winning percentage with the Oklahoma City Thunder. He was the NBA coach of the year in 2010. He went to the Finals in 2012. He was lauded for leading a staff that oversaw the development of Durant, Russell Westbrook, James Harden, Serge Ibaka and Jeff Green. He won big with youth, which defies pro-sports convention and makes you excited about what he can do with Washington’s precocious core of John Wall, Bradley Beal and Otto Porter Jr., as well as just under $28 million in salary cap space this summer.  But after Durant went down with a foot injury that limited him to 27 games last season, Brooks was fired despite a respectable 45-37 record.   The Wizards made a safe hire; it’s hard to imagine Brooks being a disaster unless something crazy happens to the roster. He’s a good coach. He contributed to building Oklahoma City’s enviable culture of collegiality, hard work and professionalism. His floor is on an elevated platform. Still, there’s the question of whether this will go down as a great hire. For all Brooks did to earn the respect of the Thunder, for all the admirable work he and his staff did with young teams, Brooks still struggled to get through to Westbrook, who is stubborn and dominates the ball. Despite all the winning Brooks did with the Thunder, there was always a sense that Oklahoma City could function a little better, and there were constant murmurs about whether that team needed a more established voice. Could any of those issues become problems in Washington? Well, Wall and Westbrook are much different point guards, even though both rely on their athleticism and attack the basket. Wall is more open to change and new ideas. Perhaps, if there’s less resistance, Brooks can show more creativity than he did in Oklahoma City. The Thunder often turned into Team Isolation, with Westbrook and Durant playing a two-man game, with the basketball staying on one side of the floor instead of moving fluidly and with too many bad shots taken for a team that should’ve displayed better balance and unselfishness.  Brooks has had a year off to reinvent himself after his first head coaching job. He has spent his time studying, visiting teams throughout the NBA and even going overseas to continue his basketball education. Brooks comes to Washington with a reputation for having a solid defensive system and a more traditional approach both on offense and in how he determines his lineup rotations. Coaches do evolve, however. When Carlisle was in Detroit and Indiana, he was considered a defensive coach. In Dallas, he has introduced what he calls the “flow offense.” It’s a clever, beautiful and efficient style of play. And the man still knows defense. Carlisle has redefined his possibilities — and made himself worth his $7 million annual salary.  Now Brooks has that opportunity. He’s a 50-year-old who didn’t really fail in Oklahoma City. He still might be coaching the Thunder if Durant hadn’t gotten hurt last year. And he’ll have his chance to pitch a reunion with Durant this summer. But Brooks is more than Durant’s NBA guardian, isn’t he? There has to be more to him.  How much more? The Wizards have $35 million riding on the answer.