 Chyna, professional wrestler and reality TV entertainer, dies at 46 - The Washington Post
Chyna, the WWE star who in the 1990s became one of the best known and most popular female professional wrestlers in history, was found dead April 20 at her Redondo Beach, Calif., apartment. A police statement listed her age as 46.  A friend had checked in on Chyna, whose real name was Joan Marie Laurer, after the former wrestler failed to answer her phone for several days, according to Redondo Beach police. The friend told the 911 operator that Ms. Laurer was not breathing. She was dead when officers arrived, police said. Neither police nor coroner’s officials have released a cause of death, but investigators said there were no indications of foul play. An autopsy was planned. The tall, muscle-bound, raven-haired Ms. Laurer billed herself as the “Ninth Wonder of the World,” her wrestling predecessor Andre the Giant having already called himself the eighth. She was a member of the wrestling squad that dubbed itself “D-Generation X,” often wrestled men and at one point was the WWE women’s champion. Ms. Laurer was born in Rochester, N.Y., and graduated from the University of Tampa in Florida, where she studied Spanish literature. She volunteered with the Peace Corps and took up wrestling after struggling to establish a career in other fields.  She debuted in the World Wrestling Federation, later renamed World Wrestling Entertainment, in 1997.  “I came up against a lot because I was female, but not because I’ve got the girlie attitude,” she once told the Weekend Australian. “There were a lot of women involved, but they were involved in a bimbo — if you will — type of way. I think it was the fact that I was a very powerful, big female coming into the ranks that upset everybody.”  After leaving WWE in 2001, Ms. Laurer published an autobiography, “If They Only Knew.” She posed for Playboy magazine and appeared in adult films and on reality television, including the shows “The Surreal Life” and “Celebrity Rehab With Dr. Drew.”  She also appeared on programs including “3rd Rock from the Sun” and “Sabrina, the Teenage Witch.” A complete list of survivors could not immediately be confirmed. Read more  Washington Post obituaries         