 NBA responds to fan-made Jeremy Lin flagrant foul video with cold, hard stats - The Washington Post
Ten days after a fan-made video garnered widespread attention on the internet, all parties involved — Charlotte Hornets guard Jeremy Lin, the videographer  and the NBA — have finally issued their say on the matter. The 6 1/2-minute video, posted April 5 by YouTube user JAD 7534, featured footage in which Lin is aggressively fouled, including several segments in which Lin takes shots to the head but no foul was called. In 11 days, the video racked up more than a million views and resulted in dozens of blogs analyzing the alleged whistle-swallowing. However, in a response to a piece written by the New York Times, the NBA declared that based on league statistics, Lin is not being unfairly officiated. The video was accompanied by a letter to NBA Commissioner Adam Silver in the description, in which the fan lays out the alleged injustices being committed against Lin, calling out the league for granting “ticky-tack” defensive fouls on Lin and offering him little protection at the other end of the court. “Lin’s health and safety are at risk, as Lin gets hit unnecessarily and excessively in the face, head, and neck areas by other players frequently. The most alarming aspect of these incidents is that the referees didn’t make the right calls to protect the player, Lin, from harm. Evidently, the lack of calls and reviews from the referees encourages other players to continue using hard foul tactics on Lin.” Lin addressed the video and the fouls on April 10, saying he appreciated the effort put forth by the random Youtuber and that while he understand hard fouls are a part of the game he must play through, he was “thankful” to see it brought to the league’s attention. The Times interviewed the video’s creator, Hsiu-Chen Kuei, a 48-year old stay-at-home mother out of San Jose, Calif., who revealed that she had constructed the video over six nights of three-hour FinalCut shifts. “I’m just happy that people are noticing this,” Kuei said in a telephone interview on Tuesday. “It’s not about views. I didn’t get money or anything. I didn’t want attention. I just want Lin to get fair calls.” With the help of some online friends, Kuei then drafted a letter, the one included in the description, and posted the video and encouraged fans to send her letter to the NBA. After less than two weeks spreading across the internet — a different version with Chinese subtitles noted by the Times has collected more than a million views of its own — the video reached the league office. The NBA issued a lengthy, detailed response Friday. The league admitted that some of the fouls in the video “involved hard contact,” but stood by its officiating crews, writing that even upon second look, the referees would not have been expected to whistle a flagrant foul, “given the full circumstances, angles and comparables from past games.” In order to rebuke the point that Lin has been fouled without a call, the NBA provided his driving and foul statistics and compared them with other guards in the league that drive at a high rate. What they revealed was that Lin is not the only guard to drive to the basket upwards of 1,500 times in the past three seasons and not garner a flagrant foul call. With respect to the data, over the last three seasons, Mr. Lin ranked 21st among all players in number of drives to the basket with 1,537.   While he has not drawn a flagrant foul in that time, neither have other guards known for their driving ability like Reggie Jackson (2,031 drives), Tony Parker (1,974), Tyreke Evans (1,969), Ty Lawson (1,891), Kyrie Irving (1,649) or Victor Oladipo (1,544).  Conversely, Mr. Lin has drawn more common fouls on those drives than any of those previously listed players and has drawn fouls at the seventh-highest rate among the 23 players with more than 1,500 drives. The league also posited that because flagrant fouls are called once every 500 fouls, the fact that Lin has not drawn one in his 814 drawn fouls was not “statistically significant.” The Times story also addressed this point, noting the video had not been based on statistical evidence, but was rather a response by Kuei to the extremeness in the violence she felt Lin was subjected to on a nightly basis. It is not often a fan-made video captures the attention of the league to the point that research and a statement must be released. Whether the video and subsequent discussion has any impact on officiating is yet to be seen — Lin and the Hornets kick off their playoff run against the Miami Heat Sunday.