 Sherwood keeps unbeaten season alive with three runs with two out in the seventh - The Washington Post
As the wins keep piling up, Sherwood’s baseball team refuses to entertain the idea of losing its first game this season. Whitman gave the No. 6 Warriors every reason to worry Thursday, especially when the presumed final out sailed toward first base in the seventh inning. But as the Warriors clung to the dugout fence, ounces of hope remaining in their grip, Whitman’s throw went high and out of play, bringing home the tying run. Two more Sherwood runs off a hit and another Whitman error rallied the relieved Warriors to a 3-1 win in Bethesda. “We’ve had to come back a couple times before, but nothing quite like this,” Warriors pitcher Matt Ervin said. “Still, we know to stay positive and not count out ourselves. If anybody is going to believe, it’s got to be us.” The odds facing Sherwood (14-0) already had started circling the bleachers in whispers by the time Brendan Collins came to the plate to lead off the seventh inning. The game was scoreless through the top of the sixth and featured just three hits between the teams as Ervin dueled with Vikings pitcher Sean Cook. Whitman (8-2) broke the stalemate with an RBI single by Noah Clement (2 for 3) in the bottom of the inning. But those murmurs were interrupted by Collins, who took a pitch to the gut and exhorted his teammates with a yell and clap down the first base line. “That was crazy, and it kind of woke us up,” Sherwood junior Matt Migliozzi said. “Even though we haven’t lost, we’re a team that’s faced adversity and can play through it.” Following a strikeout and flyout, John Ervin hit a groundball. When the throw missed its target, Ervin went all the way to third, and pinch-runner Patrick Britt came home when the ball was ruled out of play. Migliozzi kept the rally alive with a RBI single to right field, allowing Ervin to score the go-ahead run. An insurance run came in the next at-bat thanks to Whitman’s fourth error. The Warriors, who finished with just two hits, found themselves up 3-1. “We were down one run, not five runs, so it wasn’t a huge hill to climb. We just had to fight,” Warriors Coach Sean Davis said. “Their pitcher was throwing lights out, but then baseball happened. We caught a break, and we didn’t let up. This is a special group.” Suddenly nursing a lead that he had angrily relented just one inning earlier, Ervin closed out the win with three straight outs, including his fourth strikeout of the night to keep the Warriors unscathed this season.