 Stanley Johnson and the Pistons show no fear of LeBron James and the Cavs - The Washington Post
The general practice, when facing a superstar, is to avoid giving them any extra motivation. Detroit Pistons rookie Stanley Johnson has no time for that. After his team lost 107-90 to LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers Wednesday night to fall behind 2-0 in their Eastern Conference first round series, Johnson made it clear that, despite being a rookie, he isn’t worried about disrespecting his elders. “I’m definitely in his head,” Johnson said. “That’s for sure.” Never mind that, according to ESPN Stats and Information, James has gone 13-for-15 from the field for 28 points when Johnson has guarded him through the first two games of the series. Johnson was clearly fired up about James giving him a bump on his way off the court during Wednesday’s game – a move reminiscent of when James bumped coach Erik Spoelstra during his first season with the Miami Heat. Stanley Johnson calls out LeBron James for bumping him, trash talks Cavs bench players https://t.co/V6uxITofUp https://t.co/0g3qon8OAq — Larry Brown (@LBSports) April 21, 2016  And, after the game, he went in on one of the preeminent players in the league with a series of memorable quotes. On James trash-talking: Stanley Johnson on LeBron: "I wish he would just talk when [the game] is 0-0, not when he's up 16." — Nick Friedell (@NickFriedell) April 21, 2016  On James and Cleveland’s bench: “He jabbers. He moves his mouth sometimes. Their whole team does, kind of like their little cheerleaders on the bench. Every time you walk in the right corner, they’re always saying something like they’re playing basketball, like they’re actually in the game. “There’s only seven or eight players who play. I don’t see why the other players are talking. They might as well just be in the stands, in my opinion. On why he isn’t afraid of James like many young players would be: Stanley Johnson when asked why he's not afraid of LeBron as many other young players would be in same situation:  "Why would I be?" — Nick Friedell (@NickFriedell) April 21, 2016  And, finally, on guarding James: Johnson on LBJ: "He's going to have to strap his shoes in every night tight because I'm going to strap my shoes in every night tight." — Nick Friedell (@NickFriedell) April 21, 2016  The easy thing to say is that it’s ridiculous for someone in Johnson’s position – a rookie who finished with nine points (and was -20) in 21:41 in Game 2 – to be saying this much about James, a first-ballot Hall of Famer and the best player of his generation. But it’s also refreshing to see someone speak his mind, and to stray from the conventional norms of deference and platitudes in the media at this stage of Johnson’s career. And, frankly, all of us should be thanking Johnson. Why? Because Cavaliers-Pistons will not only be must-see TV for as long as this series goes, but for years to come, as well. The Pistons may be the East’s No. 8 seed this season, but they’re not going anywhere. Look at the guys who played significant roles in Wednesday’s game. Johnson doesn’t turn 20 until May 29; Andre Drummond is 22; Tobias Harris and Kentavious Caldwell-Pope are 23; Marcus Morris and Reggie Jackson are 26. They also have one of the NBA’s elite coaches in Stan Van Gundy, – who knows how to get the better of James in a series, leading the Orlando Magic past the Cavaliers in 2009. Almost as importantly, The Palace at Auburn Hills, where these two teams will reconvene Friday night, is 200 miles northwest of Cleveland, with only a scenic three-hour drive around the coast of Lake Erie separating the two locales. So, for the next few years, there will be at least four games a year between these two teams during the regular season – with the potential for more meetings in the playoffs. And with James and Johnson both playing the same position, there will be plenty of opportunities for these two to go against each other down the road. For now, though, the focus is on the next two games. There’s little doubt James will have a response for Johnson in Game 3, but Johnson’s comments echo a common theme from these Pistons: there is no fear in them. Yes, they are the heavy underdogs, and no, they almost certainly will not win this series. But the Pistons aren’t backing down from the fight. That might not wind up meaning anything for this series. For the future, though, it means that this has the potential to become a fun annual battle.