 Meet the next great boxer that nobody wants to fight - The Washington Post
In those early weeks, shortly after Gennady Golovkin moved to California to advance and propel his budding boxing career, his new trainer sat him in front of a dry-erase board. Abel Sanchez wrote down Nos. 1-12, and put Muhammad Ali’s name at the top. He left the second space blank, and then scribbled the names Sugar Ray Robinson, Floyd Mayweather, Joe Louis, Manny Pacquiao and others until the list was filled. “I told him by the time we get finished, you’ll be right here,” Sanchez recalled, pointing to the space below Ali’s name. “You’ll be one of the best in the world — you’ll be unbeaten, you’ll be a champion and no one will want to fight you. He looked at me like, ‘Coach, come on, are you crazy?’ ” Sanchez saw something that the rest of the boxing world would soon be privy to. Soon, Sanchez says, no one will be able to ignore the electrifying middleweight who effortlessly carries so many of the sport’s current hopes and expectations.  When Mayweather walked from boxing last year, he left a vacancy. The sport suddenly lacked a consensus best pound-for-pound fighter, but it was also absent a superstar who could transcend the sport and connect with the more casual sports fan. Many see Golovkin, 34, as the best possible heir, a boxer with both unimpeachable credentials and an in-ring style that wows crowds and obliterates foes. “He passes the eyeball test in every way,” HBO analyst Jim Lampley said. “I think it’s kind of surprising to some of us that the general public has not caught on to a greater degree. You can feel the increments of how it’s happening, though.”  [Conor McGregor says he’s not retired two days after saying just that]  Golovkin, known casually as “GGG” or “Triple G,” carries a 34-0 record with 31 knockouts. He has scored a knockout in 21 consecutive bouts, and only two fighters have ever taken him past the eighth round. He’s essentially a buzzsaw on a factory assembly line. While Mayweather was a showman outside the ring and a defensive-minded bore inside it, Golovkin has thrilled crowds in just about every arena he has entered. He sold out Madison Square Garden last October for his first pay-per-view show, scoring an eighth-round knockout over David Lemieux to win the International Boxing Federation title. The bout unified four of the middleweight belts. Golovkin will lay all those titles on the line this Saturday in Inglewood, Calif., against Dominic Wade, a District native who boasts an 18-0 record but is considered by most to be overmatched.  Lampley warns that while Golovkin’s knockout streak is impressive, it comes against a string of names that won’t raise many eyebrows. “Until he does it against an opponent who is seen to be near his league, it’s not going to have the kind of historic impact that those numbers suggest,” he said. But therein lies the problem: Golovkin is having a difficult time getting the top contenders — fighters like Canelo Alvarez, Miguel Cotto and Andre Ward — in the ring. “We’ve made offers . . . to just about everybody,” Sanchez said, “and we’ve been turned down.”  Golovkin is dangerous enough to give opponents pause and not yet a big enough draw to force their hands. Without the promise of a mega-payday, the risk-reward quotient is too lopsided.  “The reluctance of other opponents isn’t just the notion that you’re going to lose,” Lampley said. “It’s that you’re going to get physically wrecked, that it’ll be devastating for your career.”  [Jon Jones keeps foes at a distance, and that has made him one of UFC’s greats]  Golovkin has yet to put many weaknesses on display. He’s a power puncher who can also box. He is defensively solid and has shown a strong chin. In fact, in 350 or so amateur bouts plus 34 professional ones, he hasn’t once been sent to the canvas. Boxing has no shortage of loudmouths and braggarts, but Golovkin doesn’t spend much time entertaining best pound-for-pound discussions, a debate that revolves mostly around three names right now: Golovkin, flyweight Roman Gonzalez and light heavyweight Sergey Kovalev. “Right now, it’s not of interest for me who’s No. 1, No. 2,” Golovkin says. “You know after Floyd or Manny; it doesn’t matter for me. I know my style. I know my division is very important. You know, I think people understand more things.” It’s of little surprise that Saturday’s foe isn’t given much of a chance by the boxing literati. Wade, 26, was raised around the District and enjoyed an impressive amateur career. As a pro, he was trained by Barry Hunter early on and now works with Jay Stancil out of the Sugar Ray Leonard Boxing Gym in Clinton, Md. “Nobody really gave me the chance, so everybody’s kind of looking past trying to see the Triple G and Canelo fight,” Wade said recently. “But you know, you never know what happens in this fight. Maybe I’ll be the one to shut it all down.” Most view Saturday’s fight as a precursor to something bigger — the winner of next week’s fight between Cotto and Alvarez. While the boxing world views Alvarez-Golovkin as the sport’s biggest possible matchup, Alvarez promoter Oscar De La Hoya still wouldn’t commit this week to staging the event this year. “As a promoter, I want it to be the biggest event in the history of this sport, to attract fans and to bring back the fans that we lost when people witnessed Manny Pacquiao versus Mayweather,” said De La Hoya, the chief executive of Golden Boy Promotions. “My question every single day is, how can I accomplish that? . . . This fight has to happen at the perfect moment, at the perfect time. I think we’re getting close.” When Sanchez took marker to the dry-erase board that day six years ago, he was envisioning Golovkin toppling champions like Alvarez. But in those early days, even Sanchez wasn’t initially sure what exactly he was working with.  The trainer received a phone call out of the blue at his Big Bear, Calif., gym in March 2010. Golovkin had fought mostly in Germany, and his managers were looking to relocate to a U.S.-based gym. They checked out Las Vegas and stopped into Freddie Roach’s Wild Card gym in Los Angeles but hadn’t found the perfect fit. So they traveled to Big Bear, and though Golovkin’s English was still a work in progress, the trainer and fighter spent some time watching videos and talking boxing. It wasn’t until later that night that Sanchez jumped on the Internet to learn more about his Kazakh visitor. “I saw 350 amateur fights, a silver medalist and thought, ‘My God, what just walked into my gym?’ ” Sanchez recalled.  Golovkin left town the next day, and Sanchez thought he’d never see the fighter again. He spent weeks telling anyone who’d listen about the brilliant apparition that floated through his gym. When his phone rang two months later, he was certain his friends were playing a joke. But no, Golovkin was boarding a plane and Sanchez was asked to pick him up at the airport. Boxing was their shared language at first. Sanchez would move him around the ring, guiding the fighter with his mitts. The veteran trainer still remembers Golovkin throwing his first punch in training. “I felt it all the way down in my toes,” he said. Sanchez inherited a heavy-fisted counterpuncher. He worked on Golovkin’s balance, trained him to attack and chase knockouts. They developed a unique bond, and Golovkin places all of his trust in Sanchez.  On fight night, even though TV cameras prefer an unobstructed view of the boxer walking to the ring, Golovkin needs Sanchez in front of him. He’ll place a gloved hand on the trainer and follow him anywhere. “He’s not looking at where he’s going,” Sanchez said. “He doesn’t need to. I’m his eyes in front of him.” The way Sanchez sees it, there is no blocking Golovkin at this point. All eyes are on him, and in a sport eager for a savior, anything is possible.