FA Cup: Late Anthony Martial goal puts Man Utd in final - CNN.com
 (CNN)Anthony Martial scored an injury time goal to give Manchester United a dramatic 2-1 victory over Everton Saturday and with it a place in the FA Cup final for the first time in nine years. The French striker latched onto a loose ball 25-yards from goal as full-time approached at Wembley Stadium before striking confidently beyond Everton goalkeeper Joel Robles. Martial's strike sparked wild celebrations with United players swamped by fans at the side of the pitch. "It's fantastic," United boss Louis Van Gaal told BBC Sport shortly after the final whistle.  "When you see the joy in the eyes of the players it is fantastic to see. But also for the fans," he added. United took the lead early in the first half through Marouane Fellaini as the former Everton midfielder coolly slotted away Martial's cutback. But Van Gaal's side had to ride its luck at times in a game that saw numerous chances wasted. Everton striker Romelu Lukaku had already spurned a golden opportunity to give Everton the lead before United broke the deadlock. Wayne Rooney raced back to clear the Belgian's shot off the line after he had danced past United keeper David De Gea.  Lukaku was then denied by the feet of De Gea when put through once more as halftime approached. Everton passed up another glorious opportunity to equalize on 66 minutes when Timothy Fosu-Mensah was harshly adjudged to have fouled Ross Barkley in the United box. Lukaku stepped up but his penalty was saved by David de Gea down low to keeper's right. At this stage, it appeared highly unlikely to be Everton's day.  But luck finally shone on Roberto Martinez's men when Chris Smalling sliced Gerard Deulofeu's cross into his own net on 76 minutes. Both side's looked ready to accept extra-time as the 90 minute mark approached. However, Anthony Martial had other ideas. "The penalty save was a key moment," De Gea later told BBC Sport. "Everton played really well and had some chances in the end." "(But) in one second Anthony Martial scores a goal and you win it in the last minute - it's unbelievable," the keeper added.  Read: There was a coup d'etat against FIFA, says Blatter