Ixigo joins odd-even frenzy, promises cab without internet or GPS  | tech | Hindustan Times

 Ixigo is promising that its Android app will let you hire a cab -- the nearest one -- with just one tap. But that’s not it, the company also claims that their app work work irrespective of internet coverage and GPS location availability.  The last time there were multiple apps sprouting from everywhere, was the e-commerce and food delivery bubble that has stabilised to a great extent. It would seem that all the companies working on better cab hiring services had been waiting for the odd-even scheme to return before launching officially. This time, its the travel company Ixigo that’s promising a better ride.  Ixigo’s app is well-suited for locations where there are several cabs waiting for riders, such as railway stations, airports and pubs at closing time. The issue with these places is that usually, because of the large number of people concentrated at one spot, the networks become slow and unreliable. In such cases, Ixigo’s widget that you can place on your Android phone’s homescreen promises to fetch you the nearest cab in no time.  “Ixigo uses a combination of intelligence about the user’s location through existing PNR confirmations on a user’s phone and SMSes for when the internet connection doesn’t work to seamlessly book a cab for the user. Ixigo cabs app also intelligently prompts the users prior to their journey to the station or airport and also when they have just landed or are about to reach their destination. Since its launch, ixigo cabs has become the largest meta-aggregator of cabs, autos and ground transportation services, allowing users to search & book from multiple app-based cab providers such as Ola, TaxiForSure, EasyCabs, Jugnoo etc. directly from within its own app. By introducing 1-Tap Booking, ixigo has made it super-convenient to book the nearest taxi in less than 5 seconds with a super-intuitive button that always stays on the home screen of the user’s phone,” said the company on launch.   