 Why Facebook is delivering great earnings when other big tech companies are not - The Washington Post
In this season of great earnings expectations, all the big tech names so far have disappointed -- save one. Facebook on Wednesday bucked a string of dismal tech earnings, beating Wall Street forecasts on almost every critical metric. The world's largest social network said it grew to 1.65 billion monthly users and made $5.38 billion over the first three months of this year, more than the $5.25 billion many analysts were expecting. Profit was 77 cents a share, which blew away the 63 cents most analysts polled by Bloomberg had been expecting. The stock soared 9 percent in after-hours trading. Of particular note was mobile advertising which now makes up 82 percent of Facebook's ad revenues -- a sign that the company is making a successful transition to mobile, where many of its rivals are struggling. Facebook executives attributed some of that success to the company's efforts to streamline its ad selling tools, "We've made it easier for small and medium businesses to use the same targeting tools and ad formats that our larger advertisers use," Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg said on a conference call with investors. He also noted: "Today, people around the world spend more than 50 minutes a day using Facebook, Instagram, and Messenger. That doesn't even include WhatsApp yet." Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg said many marketers have told Facebook that trying to figure out the shift to mobile advertising is like the early days of television. The social network, she said, has made it a mission to help marketers specifically tailor their ads for a mobile world — where things must be shorter and often without sound. Sandberg said that Nestle, for instance, tried running both a traditional television ad and a mobile-optimized ad on the site. The mobile version, she said, performed better in engagement and promoting product awareness. Other features, such as auto-captioning, have led people to spend 12 percent more time with an ad. In terms of overall earnings results, it's been a different story recently for many of the other big names in Silicon Valley. On Tuesday, Apple's stock took a dive after it reported soft iPhone sales for the first time and its first revenue drop since 2003. Twitter stock also plunged after it said ad spending by big-name marketers was much weaker than it had expected. Last week, profit at Google's parent company, Alphabet, missed Wall Street forecasts. So did Microsoft, on slowing growth in its cloud business. Given the glum results from most big tech names and the lone bright spot of Facebook, should tech investors be worried about weakness in the broader sector? Not so fast, said Sheraz Mian, Research Director at Zacks Investment Research. He said he thinks the earnings misses are part of a larger story. "The lack of growth is an ongoing issue, not just in the tech sector but across the board as well," Mian said. Tech firms have been performing a little better than others for the past couple of earnings seasons, Mian said, setting high expectations from analysts. Some of the companies also face their own problems, he said, but for different reasons. Apple's struggles as smartphone growth has slowed have been well-documented. Microsoft has also been fighting a long battle, against shifting technologies that have hurt its traditional enterprise business. Google's been criticized for spending too much on long-term bets that haven't paid off yet. "Tech is a diverse universe that shouldn’t be painted with one brush. But the risk is there that less sophisticated investors will start avoiding the sector as a whole," Mian said. And Twitter is trying to carve out its own path against Facebook and Google in the ad space, which may explain why its revenue hasn't pleased analysts. “In the case of Twitter, they introduced some new retail products around their buy buttons, and I suspect that these have gained advertisers at a slower pace than anticipated," said eMarketer analyst Yory Wurmser in an email to The Post. "This is probably true across social platforms, and probably has less to do with macrotrends and more to do with the learning curve around introducing new ad formats.” David Kretzmann, an analyst for Motley Fool Supernova, said that Facebook and many other tech firms sometimes baffle analysts making predictions because they tend to take a longer view than other firms. "One thing you can tie between all these companies is that they’re generally guided by management teams focused on the long term," he said, noting that tech firms tend to meet their own, internal expectations. "None are going to be overly concerned about one quarter." Facebook has had better success with its mobile ads, managing to keep Wall Street happy with short-term advertising gains that buy it time to make money on its own other bets, such as virtual reality. "The question investors should ask is whether management is meeting their own estimates," he said. "There's a difference between companies' focus and Wall Street's focus. There can sometimes be a mismatch of perspective there."