 Google parent Alphabet sees a worrisome slowdown in online advertising - The Washington Post
Google's parent-company Alphabet reported first-quarter earnings Thursday that fell short of analysts' expectations as advertising revenue slowed more than Wall Street had expected. One of Alphabet's most important metrics -- the cost it gets paid each time a consumer clicks on one of its online advertisements -- fell 9 percent in the first quarter. That drop sent the company's shares tumbling nearly 6 percent in after-hours trading. Facebook, which also relies on advertising and reports earnings next week, saw its shares fall by 1.5 percent after hours. The decline in the so-called "cost-per-click" number is happening because of the rapid shift of consumers to mobile devices, where online ads generate far less revenue for Google, Facebook and others, said Edward Jones technology analyst Josh Olson. "Pricing on mobile is not as strong as it is on desktop," he said. "This dynamic is something they've been wrestling with for a few years." So while Alphabet is seeing strong growth in the numbers of people using its mobile search engine and clicking on mobile ads, the trend has been a bad one for the company. Overall, Alphabet's first quarter revenue rose 18 percent to about $16.5 billion, the company said. That fell slightly short of the $16.6 billion that analysts polled by Bloomberg had projected. Net income came in at $7.50 a share, short of the $7.96 projected by those analysts. The earnings report was the second since the company renamed itself Alphabet and reorganized to better assess which divisions had potential to return a profit. Some of these "other bets" include self-driving cars, Nest, which makes smart thermostats, and biotech subsidiary Calico, which is trying to figure out how to extend human lifespans. Alphabet, for now, appears willing to take on losses at these experiments in the hopes that they will one day blossom and diversify a company that primarily relies on advertising. Together, these and other entrepreneurial efforts brought in $166 million worth of revenue, but ran at an operating loss of $657 million, compared to $516 million for the same period a year ago. However, revelations that growth is slowing in its main business worried some investors. “The core business is what supports the company,” said Rob Enderle, principal analyst at the Enderle Group. “All of the other stuff just seems to be consuming resources.” Google still dominates the world of online advertising, controlling a third of all worldwide digital ad revenue in 2015, according to research from eMarketer.  Mobile is key to staying in that position going forward -- and Google’s popular Android mobile operating system has helped ensure it has access to that market. But it has also earned the company regulatory scrutiny. On Wednesday, the European Union announced formal antitrust charges against the tech giant, asserting that Google’s agreements with device-makers were aimed at unfairly promoting its services over rivals. 