 Box teams up with IBM and Amazon to solve a major data storage problem - The Washington Post
Moving data to the cloud can be trickier than many may realize. As companies increasingly move information into the cloud, politicians across the globe have faced evolving questions of how best to protect the data of their citizens. That, in turn, has led to worries that the Internet itself will become fragmented, as companies also have to deal with multiple countries' local laws that limit how they can store and transfer data. Box, the cloud-storage company, announced Tuesday that it thinks it has found a solution to at least part of the problem with a new feature called Box Zones. Box Zones will let companies store data locally in different regions throughout the world, thanks to partnerships with other cloud companies with centers around the globe. The company has been actively working to solve this problem for more than two years, said Box chief executive Aaron Levie, and it has been a priority for at least five — a pretty big deal, given that Box itself was only founded in 2005.   [European and U.S. negotiators agree on new ‘Safe Harbor’ data deal]   "We had to make a bet as to whether we wanted to build out a bunch of data centers ourselves, and build out that infrastructure, or rely on key strategic partners around the world," Levie said. IBM and Amazon Web Services are the company's initial partners, which gives Box customers the ability to comply with policies in Germany, Ireland, Singapore and Tokyo. (Amazon chief executive Jeffrey P. Bezos is the owner of The Washington Post.) Levie said he expects more partners — and more regions — to follow soon. For companies, that means an easier path to storing files internationally and possibly providing more international services to their own consumers. As politicians and companies have said for years, the treatment of customer data differs greatly from region to region, which can cause headaches for companies that don't have the resources or knowledge to operate their businesses in multiple countries. It may not be that difficult for any individual firm to add, say, a single data center in another country. But most companies that do global business work in dozens of territories, which may have their own rules about how data — particularly health or financial data — can be stored.   [FTC Chairwoman Edith Ramirez chats about privacy, security and why she’s at CES]   "Essentially, if you are a business or government agency that deals with sensitive data — maybe a hospital in France, a car company in Germany or a bank in Germany — you have to keep the files you work with stored and kept in that country," Levie said. Box Zones, will be offered as an add-on to the company's current services. It will be available to its first set of customers in May; Box has plans to expand it substantially in the next couple of years, Levie said. Levie also said that the feature is an example of how companies can work with regulations rather than view them solely as an impediment. "Hard-to-adhere-to regulations often serve to slow down companies and their ability to innovate," he said. "We are the intermediary between businesses that want to innovate and transform and governments." The move also gives the company a stronger position from which to sell its services to businesses overseas. Box competitor Dropbox recently announced that it, too, was focused on expanding its business in Europe with the addition of a fourth European office in Amsterdam. In highly competitive world of cloud storage, moves such as this one may assure sometimes skeptical tech investors that the Box has a plan forward, and also demonstrates that the company is interested in pursuing a life as a platform rather than purely as a storage company.