 Beyonce’s ‘Lemonade’ is the latest move in the streaming music war - The Washington Post
The Internet is still reeling from the thunderous drop of Beyoncé's new visual album "Lemonade," which has been hailed by critics as "Beyoncé's strongest album" and as pushing "pop music into smarter, deeper places." The album's careful rollout reveals the latest strategic move in the streaming platforms war, one designed to give lifeblood to Tidal, the digital music platform owned by her husband, Jay-Z, in which she also holds a stake. A new album has been anticipated since the February surprise drop of Beyoncé's politically infused "Formation" music video, a prelude to her Super Bowl performance. Then she teased a 15-second clip on her Instagram last week, vaguely alluding to some sort of live television event on HBO. Following the premiere of her one-hour visual album this past Saturday, the album and accompanying film bounced through a series of platform exclusives: The special was available for 24 hours on HBO's streaming service HBOGo, then promptly removed. It was accessible streaming through Tidal after its release but on no other platforms. Finally, starting Sunday night, the album was available for purchase on iTunes and at Amazon.com, as well. (Jeffrey P. Bezos, chief executive of Amazon.com, owns The Washington Post.) But Tidal remains the only platform where it's available to stream. The technique is called "windowing," releasing the product for limited periods through different platforms and venues, similar to how a new film is released first in the theater, then for home consumption. For "Lemonade," it also provided a bump in subscriptions for Tidal, a rising streaming platform. Its star-powered collection of owners lends it an image as the artist-backed alternative to competitor platforms like Spotify, which have faced controversy for not paying the musicians enough. Tidal shot up to the second most downloaded app on the charts as of Wednesday, according to Slate, and No. 1 among the music app charts. Last week, it became the highest grossing iOS music app in the country, according to Music Business Worldwide, a huge leap from its No. 5 position in February, the last time rankings were posted by App Annie. It's a welcome jump from Tidal's generally lukewarm performance since its dramatic rollout last year. The platform is reported to have around 3 million subscribers, lagging behind Apple Music's 11 million subscribers or Spotify's 30 million. However, a recent slew of big-name exclusive releases, such as Rihanna's "Anti" and Kanye West's "The Life of Pablo," have helped boost Tidal's user base, with "Pablo" being streamed 250 million times on the service and reportedly tripling its subscriptions (although there have been reports, including one in a lawsuit by a former Tidal executive, that Tidal's subscription numbers are exaggerated). Tidal secured another huge exclusive last year: the entire discography by Prince, who moved his catalogue off of Spotify in support of Tidal's artist-owned model. While no numbers have been reported on an uptick in subscriptions after Prince's death last week, reports have shown a huge jump in sales for Prince's albums. Demand for Prince's music seems to be soaring, perhaps encouraging some fans to sign up for Tidal's exclusive access to his streaming catalog. Other platforms are using the artist-exclusive model. Drake will release his new album exclusively on Apple Music for the first week. Gwen Stefani's new album is only streaming on Tidal and Apple Music, while rising Atlanta rapper Young Thug dropped an exclusive streaming mixtape on Pandora. "The best people in life are free," sings Taylor Swift on "New Romantics," available exclusively on Apple Music for $9.99 a month. So where does that lead fans, who are offered a dizzying array of platform choices? Each offers its own lineup of artists, sometimes for limited periods of time. Consumers could choose to sign up for multiple streaming subscriptions, but with a year's subscription for any of these services averaging $120 a year, the price to sign up for multiple services would be costly. One fan even wants to sue Tidal for supposedly duping them and other fans into signing up for the service with the understanding that it would be the only way to listen to "The Life of Pablo." The suit is based on a tweet from West that stated, "My album will never never be on Apple. And it will never be for sale. … You can only get it on Tidal." A month after the tweet, the album was made available on Apple Music, Google Play and Spotify. But despite the increased interest in these streaming sites, some fans are still turning to pirating sites to illegally download the latest big-name drop. Torrentfreak reported that "The Life of Pablo" was illegally downloaded by an estimated 500,000 people on its first day, twice the amount of times that Tidal reported it was streamed on their service in the first 10 days. Similarly, Beyoncé's "Lemonade" is topping the piracy charts on websites like Kick Ass Torrents and the Pirate Bay, reported Music Business Insider. No numbers have been available for the total number of illegal downloads.