Loss to United Seals Aston Villa’s Slide Into Relegation - The New York Times
A 1-0 loss at Manchester United on Saturday ensured that Aston Villa’s 28-year stay in the English top flight would come to an end, but Newcastle and Sunderland gave themselves hope of escaping the Premier League relegation zone with 3-0 wins. Relegation to the second-tier League Championship is now assured for last-place Villa, which has collected only 16 points in 34 games. A Marcus Rashford goal sealed Villa’s fate while keeping fifth-place United in touch with the top four. Villa has been in the Premier League since the league’s inaugural season in 1992-93 and was in the top flight in its previous guise for four years before that. Villa won the top tier in 1981 and won the European Cup the following season but was relegated in 1987. Villa will probably find it harder to make an instant return to the top division, as it did in 1988. There has never been a worse time to be relegated from the Premier League. New television contracts, worth more than $12 billion over three years, start next season. Teams are set to earn at least $142 million per season in TV and prize money. Villa is in line to receive around $92 million for finishing in last; on the sliding scale, the champion earns around $142 million. Newcastle and Sunderland are both scrapping to avoid missing out on the larger windfall. Sunderland moved to a point from safety by winning at Norwich, and it has a game in hand over Norwich, which is immediately outside of the relegation zone in 17th. Newcastle, which beat visiting Swansea, is 2 points behind Sunderland and has a game in hand over Norwich. The focus at the top of the Premier League standings was on the race for the league’s fourth Champions League spot. Manchester City followed up its midweek victory over Paris St.-Germain, which gave it a place in the Champions League semifinals against Real Madrid, by dismantling host Chelsea, 3-0. City provisionally climbed above Arsenal into third place. United is 3 points behind Arsenal and could have to settle for a place in the second-tier Europa League. MADRID PRESSURES BARCELONA Scoring one goal and assisting on two more, Karim Benzema ensured Real Madrid kept the pressure on Barcelona, the Spanish league leader, with a 5-1 win at last-place Getafe. In stoppage time, Cristiano Ronaldo rounded off the victory, Madrid’s seventh consecutive in the league, with his 31st goal. Madrid provisionally passed Atlético Madrid to take second place and is now a point behind struggling Barcelona. Barcelona will try to end a three-game winless run when it faces Valencia on Sunday. BAYERN MUNICH CLOSES IN Bayern Munich dominated visiting Schalke, 3-0, and increased its lead to 10 points as it closed in on a record fourth straight Bundesliga title. Second-place Borussia Dortmund can cut the gap back to 7 points by beating Hamburger S.V. on Sunday. IBRAHIMOVIC PACES P.S.G. Two goals by Zlatan Ibrahimovic gave him 32 in the French league and helped Paris St.-Germain thrash visiting Caen, 6-0, to give it a 27th league win in 34 games. Ibrahimovic became the first player to score more than 30 goals in a season in France’s top division since Carlos Bianchi had 37 in 1977-78. DAMAGING LOSS FOR NAPOLI Any hope Napoli had of snatching the Serie A title in Italy may have evaporated with a 2-0 loss at Inter Milan. Napoli remained in second, but the league leader, Juventus, can move to 9 points ahead with a victory over relegation-threatened Palermo on Sunday. Inter is provisionally 3 points behind Roma for the league’s final Champions League spot.