Bizarre Goals Favor Capitals and the Stars - The New York Times
Braden Holtby made 41 saves, Jason Chimera scored an unlikely goal and the Washington Capitals beat the visiting Philadelphia Flyers, 4-1, on Saturday night to take a 2-0 lead in their first-round Eastern Conference playoff series. Alex Ovechkin scored his 37th career playoff goal on a power play, and Chimera scored when Philadelphia goaltender Steve Mason whiffed at the puck and allowed a goal from 101 feet away, beyond the red line, which turned out to be the winner. The goal, 2 minutes 26 seconds into the second period, led to derisive “Mason” chants as the Flyers appeared deflated. Mason stopped a shot from Washington’s John Carlson, who had already scored in the first period, at point-blank range early in the second and was slow to get up. He remained in the game, but less than a minute later came a miscue that will be shown on bad-goal blooper reels for years. Karl Alzner backhanded the puck from his goal line, and Chimera tipped it from the Capitals’ side of the red line. The puck slid between Mason’s legs. “Can say it over and over again, ‘It’s a bad goal,’ ” Mason said. “That wasn’t good. My fault, obviously. Put the team in a tough position after that. Just a bad goal.” The Flyers outshot the Capitals, 42-23, and dominated much of the game but had difficulty solving Holtby, who had shut them out in Game 1. Jake Voracek scored the Flyers’ only goal midway through the second period, but Ovechkin fired a one-timer past Mason to extend Washington’s lead to 3-1. Nicklas Backstrom added an insurance goal with 2:13 left. Game 3 is in Philadelphia on Monday night. STARS 2, WILD 1 Antoine Roussel scored from behind the net without the puck touching a stick, and Dallas beat visiting Minnesota to take a 2-0 lead in their Western Conference playoff series. The Stars scored first on Roussel’s strange goal about four minutes into the second period, when the puck ricocheted off the skates of Ales Hemsky and then Roussel without either player getting a stick on it. The Wild’s Marco Scandella was trying to clear the puck when it instead bounced off Hemsky’s skate toward Roussel, then popped up off his skate and over the net. The puck slid down goaltender Devan Dubnyk’s back and dropped onto the ice as the net became dislodged. The Stars were awarded the goal after a lengthy review. Dallas’ Jamie Benn scored on a breakaway with 9:37 left in the game. Scandella scored Minnesota’s first goal of the series a short time later. The All-Star center Tyler Seguin was back on the ice for Dallas for the first time since sustaining a small cut in his left Achilles’ tendon on March 17. The series shifts to Minnesota for Game 3 on Monday night.