Stephen Curry Leaves With Mild Injury, but the Warriors Fare Well Without Him - The New York Times
OAKLAND, Calif. —  After completing the best regular season in N.B.A. history and establishing themselves as solid favorites to win a second straight championship, the Golden State Warriors faced the perceived nuisance of a first-round playoff series against Houston, with observers wondering if the Rockets even stood a chance. If they did not have one at the outset, they might have found one late in the second quarter Saturday when Golden State’s all-everything guard Stephen Curry rolled his ankle while trying to change directions. The Warriors are calling it a tweak, and Curry was healthy enough to return for about three minutes in the third quarter before Coach Steve Kerr removed him for good. Curry still finished with a game-high 24 points, hitting five of seven 3-point attempts, as the Warriors won Game 1 of their Western Conference matchup in a rout, 104-78. Curry is listed as questionable for Game 2, which will be played here Monday night. In a rematch of last season’s Western Conference finals, Golden State simply choked the life out of Houston. The Warriors, coming off a record 73 victories, looked nothing like the team that lost two of three games to open the month. Kerr has admitted that his team struggled through lapses in concentration over recent weeks. Klay Thompson added 16 points for the Warriors. James Harden led Houston with 17. Even with Houston facing obvious pressure to do something about the Warriors’ 3-point production — they hit an N.B.A.-record 1,077 during the season, with Curry contributing 402, also a record — Golden State came out firing, recording its first 9 points from deep as part of a first-half attack that produced a 60-33 lead. The backup point guard Shaun Livingston helped the Warriors withstand a third-quarter run, and in the end, the Rockets scored only 1 more point than the Warriors in the second half. Toward the end of the regular season, the Rockets showed good ball movement and increased aggression in winning four of their final six games, including a victory over the third-seeded Oklahoma City Thunder. Postseason play at Oracle Arena, though, is a different beast. Golden State’s defenders switched at will, regardless of who was on the court, shutting down virtually every tactic the Rockets sought to use. Harden is Houston’s best player, and his game is predicated on drawing contact in the paint, but he failed to reach the free-throw line. “One of their strengths is versatility,” Rockets Coach J. B. Bickerstaff said. “They do a lot of switching, and they have like-sized guys in multiple positions. We didn’t do a good enough job making them pay. When they switch, we have to move more, but instead we moved less, which made us easier to guard.” The Warriors’ victory was their 13th over Houston in their last 14 meetings, including last season’s playoffs. It was Golden State’s 40th win at home this season, against two losses. Early on, the Rockets’ best bet seemed to lie in hounding Curry. Five minutes in, Patrick Beverley — who missed last year’s playoff matchup with an injured left wrist — landed an elbow to Curry’s face as the smaller Curry tried to dribble by him. Curry responded with a shove, and each was issued a technical foul. The Warriors would not label the play as dirty after the game, instead calling it the type of hard-nosed postseason basketball they are used to. “This is how these games go,” Kerr said. “It’s a different game from earlier in the season in terms of the intensity.” Forward Draymond Green said: “We knew it would be physical like that. You know, that’s playoff basketball. That’s what you expect.” Curry himself described the contact as merely “a little back-and-forth.” The fans at Oracle were less forgiving. With the arena in its by-now-familiar mode of deafening overdrive, the spectators were especially lusty in expressing their displeasure with Beverley, booing at seismic levels every time he touched the ball. Kerr’s decision to remove Curry from the game did not sit well with his star. “He was incredulous,” Kerr said. Curry was more forthright, saying he had tried three times to get Kerr to reinsert him “and I was 0 for 3.” Curry said he had also gone to the assistant coaches Luke Walton and Bruce Fraser. “We all swung and missed,” Curry said.