U.S.A. Hockey Has No Need for Miracles Anymore - The New York Times
The United States opens play at the under-18 world men’s hockey championships in Grand Forks, N.D., on Thursday as the two-time defending champion. In a sport usually dominated by their neighbors to the north, the Americans have won six of the last seven tournaments and have a record 13 medals in the event’s 17-year history. It is a run of success born of disappointments and frustrations at the international level. In 1995, when Ron DeGregorio was elected vice president of U.S.A. Hockey and put in charge of international competitions, American teams had, in 35 years, earned a grand total of six medals at events sanctioned by the International Ice Hockey Federation: two golds (1960 and 1980) and a silver (1972) at the Olympics, a bronze at the world championship in 1962 and bronzes at the world junior championships in 1986 and 1992. That was not good enough for DeGregorio, whose first order of business was establishing a national team development program. “We wanted to have a program that would elevate the status of Team U.S.A. at all levels,” he said. “No longer did we want to rely on miracles. We wanted to make sure we were a contender year in and year out in international play. That’s not to say our development programs were horrendous before this — we developed some pretty great hockey players over the years — but we wanted to raise the bar. The goal was to have more elite American hockey players, and it had to start with a solid development foundation.” Six months later, Jeff Jackson, who had recently won two N.C.A.A. championships as the coach at Lake Superior State, was hired as the program’s first coach. “I had coached world juniors the year before, and frankly, it was such a frustrating experience for me that I was embarrassed to even be applying for the position,” he said. “But that tournament was an example of the weakness of our depth in developing young talent, and I was motivated by that experience to be in a position to change that.” The original idea for the program had been to gather the best 16- and 17-year-olds for a six-week summer camp and a few events during school breaks, but Jackson felt the only way to develop the players was to train them for an entire season. When he proposed that, and the nearly $2 million budget that came with it, he met opposition from within U.S.A. Hockey, which had been nearly bankrupt less than a decade earlier. But DeGregorio won approval for the budget. The next hurdle was recruiting some of the best players in the country away from their high schools, prep schools and minor midget teams. Bob Mancini, who was in charge of recruiting at the time, said he was chased out of a rink during a scouting trip by one team’s assistant coach. “They didn’t want us anywhere near their kids,” he said. “I was shocked.” Once they made it past the coaches, U.S.A. Hockey staff members had to persuade players to leave their comfort zone and join a team that would probably lose a lot against older, stronger international opponents. “We want players that are ready to take on a different type of challenge that involves failure and struggle and disappointment in order to have a better understanding of exactly what they need to do to get better,” said Scott Monaghan, who still serves as director of operations for the program. “The goal isn’t always to win; it’s to train future N.H.L.ers.” Today, the program consists of 22 under-17 players and 22 under-18 players, who compete in the United States Hockey League and in exhibitions against college programs. Their opponents often range in age from 17 to 24. The program recently moved to the newly renovated U.S.A. Hockey Arena in Plymouth, Mich., with a state-of-the-art off-ice training center and two sheets of ice — an N.H.L.-size rink that seats 3,500 and an Olympic-size auxiliary rink. Players live with local families, attend school and have a tutor who travels with them during international events. Since the start of the program in 1996, more than 80 alumni have played in the N.H.L., including 19 who made their debuts this year. Two of those players — Jack Eichel of the Buffalo Sabres and Dylan Larkin of the Detroit Red Wings, both 19 — lead their teams in goals. Two more former development program players are among the top five prospects in the N.H.L. draft in June: Matthew Tkachuk and Auston Matthews, who is expected to be only the seventh American picked No. 1. As many as nine former development program players could be taken in the first round. “I really think the whole world is thinking about development now and putting more emphasis on it,” said DeGregorio, who was recently inducted into the United States Hockey Hall of Fame. “They see us having success with this program, especially at the U18 World Championship and world juniors, and you see other countries ramp up their programs, and I think it’s great for hockey.” Twenty years ago, U.S.A. Hockey struggled to put together competitive teams, but it has since won two Olympic silver medals, three golds and three bronze medals at the world junior championship and three bronze medals at the men’s world championship. The under-18 squad has won nine golds, three silvers and a bronze. Now the biggest problem for U.S.A. Hockey is deciding which players to cut and finding room for a bigger trophy case. Jackson, now the coach at Notre Dame, said: “They’ve accelerated their development to the point where kids are getting drafted in the first round right out of the program and playing in the N.H.L. within a year or two, and they’re winning more medals across all levels than they ever have before. Anything but gold is a disappointment now.”