Grumbling About Socialism, the Yankees Profit From It - The New York Times
Socialism wafts in the spring wind. That son of Brooklyn, Bernie Sanders, walks the streets of the city denouncing the lords of finance. And in the Bronx, Randy Levine, president of that Goldman Sachs of baseball franchises, the Yankees, holds forth on the unjustness of a more rarefied socialism. Levine says Major League Baseball’s revenue-sharing agreement, which compels wonderfully wealthy franchises to give tens of millions of dollars to somewhat less-wealthy teams, is a too-blunt instrument of redistribution. “What is very burdensome to us, and is unfair, is the amount of money we have to pay in revenue sharing compared, for example, to teams in our market that pay 10 times less than us,” Mr. Levine told Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports. Mr. Levine had in mind the Mets, and I can dig it. Thanks to the depredations of the Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff, the Wilpons once trembled. Baseball extended a secret $25 million loan, a comfort known only to the rich. Fans put up with years of bad and badly funded baseball. In possession now of rosy health and a pennant flag, the Mets contribute modestly to revenue sharing. Then again, the Yankees benefit from a different sort of socialism. Taxpayers spent nearly $1 billion subsidizing the ziggurat known as the new Yankee Stadium. And the Yankees pointedly decline to share their boodle with fans in the form of cheaper tickets. The former state senator Richard Brodsky issued a stinging report several years ago, “The House That You Built.” It examined the ways, hidden and not, by which the public subsidized the new stadium. (The Mets’ owners, no pikers, received more than $500 million to build Citi Field.) Mr. Brodsky and his staff uncovered political gamesmanship and legerdemain, some of which pushed against the bounds of the legal. I asked him for a tutorial. “Randy Levine was a leading socialist when it came to feeding at the public trough,” he said. “He is a Bernie Sanders for the extremely rich.” Mr. Levine, who received his rhetorical training as deputy mayor for the temple-bursting Rudy Giuliani, did not hesitate to return serve in kind. “Richard Brodsky has never had the slightest idea what the Yankee Stadium deal was about,” he told me. “He is a blowhard.” So far, so schoolyard. Let’s pause to examine the details of this stadium deal, in which New York, as in Milwaukee, Cleveland, Minnesota and so on across the United States, came gold-lined with public dollars for the private team owners. Mr. Levine opened our discussion with a big play. “There are no subsidies,” he said. He folded that hand soon enough. According to the city’s Independent Budget Office, the stadium received about $270 million in federal tax-exempt financing. There was an additional $58 million for the parking garages, which the Yankees don’t own but from which they benefit. “The bonds don’t cost the city or the state anything,” Mr. Levine said. “It costs federal taxpayers all over the country.” That might not comfort a taxpaying plumber in Tulsa. The city and state gave the Yankees a $40 million sales tax exemption on their construction costs. Mr. Levine argues that the stadium now generates sales tax, which is true but is beside the point. Most women and men start businesses without government subsidies and pay sales tax. So we’ll count that as a subsidy. The city allowed the Yankees to build atop a city park. In turn, the city built a handsome new park for the working-class residents near the stadium. Mr. Levine tossed down another that-ain’t-no-subsidy soft-shoe. “The parks are a home run, a great use of public funds,” he said. “The Metro-North station, people wanted that forever.” The Yankees could not simply steal a park — someone had to pay to replace it. And they wanted that train station. I am grading this test, and like the staff of the Independent Budget Office and Mr. Brodsky, I declare all of this a subsidy, good for about $380 million. Then there is a property-tax exemption and tax-exempt bonds, which saved the Yankees $400 million. Here the story deepens. Let’s dispense with the obvious: This was a subsidy. “The City has determined to use its property taxes” to “finance the construction and operation” of the Stadium, the bond counsel for the Yankees wrote to the Internal Revenue Service in 2006. Now let’s turn to Mr. Brodsky and the heart of his objections. The new stadium — which as of a few years ago produced 15 full-time jobs — almost certainly was ineligible for a city subsidy. So officials pretended the Yankees were at imminent threat to relocate to the New Jersey Meadowlands, or Newburgh or Troy, N.Y. This allowed the city to offer a retention subsidy. Mr. Brodsky inquired about this at his hearings. Which city official heard the Yankees say they might leave? “I don’t recall,” replied Seth Pinsky, who was charged with overseeing this project. Did they tell anyone in your agency? “There may have been,” Mr. Pinsky said. “I don’t recall.” The Yankees wanted to apply their property-tax money to paying off their low-rate, tax-exempt federal bonds, a tactic known as a payment in lieu of taxes. (In layman’s terms, it is like building yourself a new house and persuading the city to let you send property taxes to your bank to pay off your mortgage). The Internal Revenue Service feared that such deals amounted to a legal raid on the federal treasury. So the I.R.S. demanded that officials prove that the bond payments really matched what the team would have paid in property taxes. That was no easy task. Most appraisals in the Bronx ran no higher than $36 a square foot. A nearby shopping mall, home to a Target and a Bed Bath & Beyond, was built on land appraised at $9 a square foot. The city sent its appraiser to Harlem, a hot real estate market. Voilà! According to Brodsky’s report, the land under Yankee Stadium was valued at $204 million, or $275 a square foot. This fib allowed the Yankees to siphon their money into tax-exempt bonds, at a cost to taxpayers across the nation. The city and Bruce Ratner, a politically wired developer, reprised this shell game for Barclays Center in Brooklyn. Soon after, the I.R.S. ended the practice. All of which gets to what rubs Mr. Brodsky raw: ticket prices. How is it that we drove trucks up to the Stadium and dumped piles of cash and ended up with the second-highest baseball ticket prices in the nation? “Government’s client is the public and not the Yankees,” Mr. Brodsky said. “When the public subsidizes a stadium, there is a public interest in assuring that people can afford events.” Good luck with that. Saturday’s game against the Mariners and King Felix featured a few tickets in the $21-to-$35 range. Those are closer to heaven than to the field. As we descend, prices move upward, into the $145 range and beyond. Maybe the better bet was to treat this as a business investment. Since the Yankees came into possession of a new stadium, the value of the franchise has nearly doubled, to more than $3 billion. A clever city official might have sought an ownership stake. The public record establishes that the Bloomberg officials sought a luxury box. “It was,” Mr. Levine said, “a great public-private partnership.” No doubt.