Dodgers Pitcher Takes a Big Step Up  - The New York Times
As Ross Stripling prepared for this season, his goal was not to make the Los Angeles Dodgers’ rotation and allow no hits in his first major league start. “I was honestly hoping just not to go back to Tulsa,” Stripling said last week before opening day at Dodger Stadium, referring to the Dodgers’ Class AA affiliate in Oklahoma. “I knew we were going to have a lot of guys filter down to Triple-A and that might push guys back to Double-A, and I thought I might be in that mix to go back to Double-A. When they kind of told me early in spring that I was going to Oklahoma City, that was a good thing for me. I was happy to be going up a level.” Then Brett Anderson injured his back. And Mike Bolsinger strained his oblique muscle. And suddenly, with Stripling pitching well, the Dodgers rerouted his path from Oklahoma City to the majors. He fired seven and a third no-hit innings in his debut at San Francisco, then was lifted for a reliever after 100 pitches. The decision to take him out was controversial, but only mildly. Stripling, 26, had Tommy John surgery in 2014 and had topped out at 78 pitches in spring training. He was starting to feel tired and had issued four walks. Stripling’s father actually thanked the Dodgers’ manager, Dave Roberts, for making his son’s health a priority. “He’s got great command, he’s got repeatable mechanics, and when you’ve got those components and you’ve got a game plan that you can execute, then you’ve got a good chance,” said Roberts, who also praised Stripling’s mound presence. “Did I see him throwing no-hit ball through seven and a third? Absolutely not. But I knew that he was going to compete and make pitches.” Stripling’s right arm has a scar, but not many pitches on its medical chart. He did not pitch until his senior year at Carroll High School in Southlake, Tex., and was more interested in basketball until a broken leg limited his athletic options. Unable to play the infield for the baseball team, Stripling concentrated on his arm, learned a knuckle-curveball from a teammate and was a walk-on at Texas A&M. He stayed all four years, earning a degree in finance in 2012, when the Dodgers drafted him in the fifth round. When he realized that his graduation ceremony would conflict with a scheduled start against San Diego State, Stripling asked his coach if he could switch turns with Michael Wacha, the Aggies’ ace and a future St. Louis Cardinal. The coach said no, which Stripling expected; he never even bought a cap and gown. His whole family showed up, anyway, and saw something even more memorable. In his final start at College Station, when Stripling should have been walking across a stage with a fresh diploma, he threw a no-hitter. “It was pretty crazy,” Stripling said. “Pretty wild.” Not as wild, perhaps, as throwing a near no-hitter in his major league debut, a feat accomplished just once, by Bumpus Jones of the 1892 Cincinnati Reds. The last pitcher to carry a no-hitter as deep as Stripling in his major league debut was Boston’s Billy Rohr, who lost a no-hit bid at Yankee Stadium on April 14, 1967, when Elston Howard singled with two outs in the ninth inning. It also gained Stripling a lot more attention. “I had 174 texts when I got back to my locker,” Stripling he said. “Not a ton of phone calls — my brother, one or two friends who couldn’t make it — but most of our generation just texts.” Stripling continued the strong start to his career on Thursday, allowing five hits and two runs across six innings to help beat the Arizona Diamondbacks.  Recognizing Hoover
  The Washington Nationals added Herbert Hoover to the collection of mascots in their daily Presidents’ Race at Nationals Park last week. For Matthew Schaefer, the archivist at the Hoover Presidential Library in West Branch, Iowa, it is nice to see our 31st president win for a change. Hoover the mascot captured his first three races. “It’s the only time in contemporary America that he’s running neck and neck with Lincoln and Roosevelt,” Schaefer said. “You rank the top 10 presidents and you’ll get Lincoln, Roosevelt, F.D.R., different presidents from different times. But you’re never going to get Hoover.” Alas, Schaefer said, that is the fate of the man who held office from 1929 to 1933, at the start of the Great Depression. Hoover’s status as the newest runner in the mascot race — with George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, Teddy Roosevelt, William Howard Taft — owes not to his record in office. Hoover is included now as part of an educational partnership with the White House Historical Association, which uses a different president each year on its annual Christmas ornament. The 2015 ornament featured Calvin Coolidge, who raced last season at Nationals Park. This year is Hoover, who had strong ties to baseball. “To us, it’s not about the politics of the president,” said Stewart McLaurin, the president of the White House Historical Association. “It’s about using the presidents and their families to tell the story of White House history.” Hoover is best known to the game for Babe Ruth’s famous put-down in 1930. Defending his $80,000 salary — which was $5,000 more than President Hoover made — Ruth quipped, “I had a better year than Hoover.” Ruth had hit .345 with 46 homers in 1929, so it was hard to argue the point. Hoover met Ruth at least once, in 1933, at a football game between Southern California and Stanford, Hoover’s alma mater. Hoover tried out for the Stanford baseball team, and though he did not make it, he was a lifelong fan. He was said to love offense, even advocating a rule change requiring four strikes for a strikeout, believing more runners on base would make for more excitement. Hoover tossed a ceremonial first pitch at a Washington Senators game while president, and again at Yankee Stadium — at age 86 — for Old-Timers’ Day in 1960. Hoover lived in New York then, attended many World Series games and knew George Weiss, the Yankees’ general manager. When Weiss became president of the expansion Mets in 1962, he annually offered Hoover a season pass. By then, Hoover was too ill to go to games. He died in 1964, but for a while, his baseball legacy lived on with his quotation on a sign displayed at Crosley Field in Cincinnati: “The rigid volunteer rules of right and wrong in sports are second only to religious faith in moral training — and Baseball is the greatest of American sports.”  Philosophy Behind a Name
  The inspiration for the unusual first name of Socrates Brito, the Arizona Diamondbacks’ rookie center fielder, is obvious enough. He is, indeed, named for the ancient Greek philosopher. “My father picked it out,” Brito said. “He was thinking Socrates was a smart guy, and he thought of that name. He was saying, ‘Let’s see if my son can be smart, too.’ ” Brito’s middle name is just as unlikely: Orel. “That name comes from Orel Hershiser, the pitcher,” Brito said. “He was one of the best pitchers in that era.” Brito was born in the Dominican Republic in 1992, four years after Hershiser led the Dodgers to a championship while spinning 67 consecutive scoreless innings, including the postseason. Brito said he had never met Hershiser, though, and was not too familiar with Socrates’s writings, either. “I just read a little bit of his philosophy, no more than that,” Brito said. “But, I mean, I’m the only Socrates in the big leagues. So that’s something big.” The Diamondbacks signed Brito in 2010 but reduced his bonus to $90,000, from $190,000, after he failed a test for performance-enhancing drugs. Brito made up for that mistake by advancing steadily through the farm system. He hit .300 with good speed (15 triples, 20 steals) at Class AA last season and earned an everyday job just before opening day, when the All-Star A. J. Pollock broke his elbow. “That can happen to any player — to me, too — and it’s sad to lose a really good player,” Brito said. “I think it’s a good opportunity for me, but it’s not the way you want to start playing games. You don’t want anybody to get hurt. But that’s how it is, and I’m trying to do my job here and enjoy the opportunity.”