Clutch Hitting Remains Elusive as Yankees Fall to the Mariners - The New York Times
For the first four innings against the Seattle Mariners on Saturday, the Yankees were handed some ingredients to break a three-game losing streak. C. C. Sabathia had a shutout brewing while the Mariners’ ace, Felix Hernandez, was uncharacteristically wild, walking five batters. There was just one vital component missing all afternoon, the absence of which has recently doomed the Yankees: an ability to get hits with runners in scoring position. The Yankees left 14 runners on base, going 0 for 12 with runners in scoring position for the second straight game, a display of futility that contributed to a 3-2 loss at Yankee Stadium. Alex Rodriguez returned to the lineup after sitting out Friday’s game, but he went 0 for 5 and is hitless in his last 19 at-bats. Rodriguez struck out three times, and his batting average rests at an unsightly .100. “No player in here should feel like they should put the team on their shoulders,” Rodriguez said. “The key for us is to not try to do too much.” Rodriguez is not the only one preaching patience now that the Yankees have scored a total of seven runs during their four-game skid. After the loss, many players talked about searching for the one big hit, as if it were a buried treasure. Entering Saturday, the Yankees were in a 3-for-34 slump with runners in scoring position over four games. The final out in Saturday’s game was typical: Chase Headley grounded out to second base with runners on second and third. “We put ourselves in good positions for most of the day,” Headley said. “Just can’t quite get that big hit to break through.” With the Yankees facing Hernandez, it was possible to believe they would not have many runners at all. Hernandez began the day with a 5-1 record and 1.38 E.R.A. at Yankee Stadium, the lowest mark for a pitcher with at least 50 innings there. The Yankees had opportunities against him, putting runners on first and second in the first inning, but Carlos Beltran struck out for the third out. In the next inning, the Yankees loaded the bases with two outs, but Brett Gardner flied out to center field. The missed opportunity that inning was particularly frustrating. Starlin Castro had singled to lead off, and Headley had walked, but Didi Gregorius and Austin Romine, who started at catcher in place of Brian McCann, made the next two outs on three pitches. “It should be a game you win, but we didn’t,” Manager Joe Girardi said, adding, “We had our opportunities and didn’t take advantage of it.” Beltran doubled in the third and fifth innings but was stranded at third base both times. Hernandez got Gregorius looking to close the fifth, giving him 2,162 strikeouts for the Mariners, which tied him with the Hall of Famer Randy Johnson for the club record. The Yankees put up one run in the third on Beltran’s double as Mark Teixeira scored from first base. Beltran added a solo home run in the seventh and finished 4 for 5, raising his average to .351. “Just right now, things aren’t working for us with guys in scoring position,” Beltran said. Sabathia, making his 200th start for the Yankees, looked crisp early, but he came undone in the fifth. Leonys Martin opened with a solo home run on a 1-2 slider left over the plate. Sabathia did not even lift his head to turn around as the ball was deposited far over the right-field fence. With one on and one out, Castro bailed out Sabathia with a heady defensive play, fielding a ground ball and charging to first, all the while keeping his eye on the Mariners’ Luis Sardinas, who started at second base. When Sardinas made a sharp turn toward home, Castro fired to third to get him out. But a defensive lapse in the next at-bat cost Sabathia just as dearly. When Robinson Cano singled to center field, Ketel Marte, who had reached base safely after Sardinas drew Castro’s attention, sprinted from first to home. Jacoby Ellsbury double-clutched the ball after fielding it, and his throw to the infield was late. “Jake came up and looked at the runner instead of coming up throwing to the infielder, and that little pause cost us that run,” Girardi said. Sabathia said he did not see Ellsbury fumble his grip on the ball. But he assuredly witnessed the next play, when a double down the left-field line by Nelson Cruz scored Cano and propelled the Mariners to a 3-1 lead. As Sabathia watched the fifth hit he had allowed in the inning roll to the wall, he threw his hands up in the air, as if in disbelief. Cruz was his last batter of the day. Sabathia walked off the mound after four and two-thirds innings, having yielded seven hits while striking out five. “I got in favorable counts,” Sabathia said. “I just couldn’t make that last pitch.”