A Town Nourished by Mickey Mantle’s Legacy, if Not Yet Prosperity - The New York Times
COMMERCE, Okla. — The Mickey Mantle name is worth millions, but you won’t find that kind of money in the town where Mantle learned to switch-hit by hitting tennis balls, using the side of a metal shed as a backstop. Commerce has more than its share of sagging porches, peeling paint and overgrown lots. The main drag is quiet, with only the Western-themed Hitch N’ Post Antique and Flea Market and a few other businesses trying to make a go of it. On one recent weekday afternoon, it felt as if everybody had gone someplace else. Still, there is Yankee pride of a sort, even here in Kansas City Royals country, near the Kansas state line. In the middle of town, the Commerce water tower is painted with pinstripes and a No. 7. A statue of Mantle, the “Commerce Comet,” greets visitors on Mickey Mantle Boulevard at the edge of town, just behind the center-field wall at the high school field named for him. All who come here to reconnect with their childhood hero look for Mantle’s home, the square, four-room white house with a big yard and rusted, corrugated metal shed where, the story goes, Mantle’s father and grandfather would pitch to the boy as he hit from the left side, and the right, for hours every afternoon until the sun went down. The shed’s roof is partly peeled away, but the legend is intact: This is the spot where baseball’s greatest switch-hitter grew up. Getting that close to Mantle, who homered his way to stardom in the time of Marilyn and Elvis, is enough to make a grown man cry. “We’ve actually seen them break down in tears talking about Mickey Mantle and him being their hero and everything,” said Tisha Nading, a clerk at Tammi’s L & M convenience store. “It’s really neat to know that somebody from here meant that much to somebody growing up.” Now that spring is back, the pilgrims will start showing up in bigger numbers again. No one knows how many come each year, although Michael Hart, the mayor of Commerce, ventured that “it’s thousands; I could tell you that right now.” No one knows how long visitors stay, either, or how much they spend, but it most likely is not much. Commerce doesn’t have a hotel. Visitors can find lunch, and they might pick over some antiques, or head over to the Dairy King for a cone, but that’s about it. Nobody is offering a $525,000 Mantle rookie card for sale, or is driving around as if he just cashed one in. “We have people saying all the time, ‘Hey, is there any place we can buy a Mickey Mantle T-shirt, or a key chain, or a magnet?’ — just some sort of keepsake they can take with them, so they can say, ‘I was in Commerce, Okla., and I got a postcard, and I got this,’ ” said Hart, 33, who grew up next door to the Mantle home. “And we always have to say, ‘Sorry, I don’t have anything like that.’ ” But nearly 70 years after Mantle clawed his way out of this corner of Oklahoma, where his father supported the family by working in the lead and zinc mines, people are still looking for a way to lift the town up on Mantle’s broad shoulders, or at least do more to honor him. They did have big plans once, dreams bigger than a souvenir stand, and maybe too big for Commerce. In the years after Mantle’s death in 1995 at the age of 63, a few of his old high school teammates and others came up with a plan for a multimillion-dollar museum. They created the Mickey Mantle Memorial Trust Fund, bought 17.5 acres of land on the other side of Mickey Mantle Boulevard and hired an architect to come up with a design. The result: detailed plans for a museum complex featuring four baseball diamonds and a building with interactive exhibits, at a total cost approaching $10 million. People involved in the project give differing accounts of why it fell through. Some say there just was not enough money raised to start the museum, and they still question whether there would have been enough visitors to sustain it. By the time Hart became mayor in 2008 and joined the board of the trust fund, he said, the museum plan had already collapsed and the Mantle family’s lawyers were telling him to remove Mantle’s name from the fund. The Mantle legacy in Commerce is now in the hands of people who grew up after he retired in 1969. Brian Waybright, 51, who teaches social studies at the local middle school, knew from a young age that Mantle was important to Commerce — he would hear his parents talk, he knew the namesakes around town — but surprisingly, he had not realized how important Mantle was everywhere else. “My next-door neighbor, his name was Mickey; my friend, his name was Mickey,” Waybright said. “There was a huge pride in Mickey Mantle, but it was all on a personal level.” Then, in 2000, Waybright helped create the Mickey Mantle Classic, a local baseball tournament that he continues to run each year, and learned what the name could do. He still marvels at his first phone call to the Baseball Hall of Fame, in Cooperstown, N.Y., to discuss his plans. “The thing that really turned my head is you might call the Baseball Hall of Fame and mention the Mickey Mantle name, and they call you right back,” he said. “That’s really impressive.” The tournament, which started on April 4 this year, is the one time on the calendar when you can find a T-shirt for sale in Commerce with Mantle’s name on it. Waybright brings a baseball star each year to sign autographs and give a speech at the closing banquet. The former Yankees pitcher Ron Guidry was there on Saturday. David and Danny Mantle, the two surviving Mantle sons, donated a signed lithograph to be auctioned off that night, to help the tournament cover its expenses. Waybright’s was the winning bid: $575. If there is one unwanted legacy preserved from the Mantle years, it is the lack of prosperity. Commerce, which is in the northeast corner of Oklahoma, is ranked among the poorer towns in the state. The lead and zinc mines in Picher, about five miles north, where Mantle’s father — Elvin Charles, known as Mutt — worked, have long since closed. The mining companies left behind a mess: contaminated water and soil, piles of mining waste that raised lead levels in children who lived nearby. Several towns were evacuated by government order, leaving behind eerie ghost towns where houses were ripped from their foundations after the communities were shut down. Some employment can be found in the Commerce schools, in area casinos and in the retail trade in nearby Miami, Okla. But there is not a lot of money to be made. A typical household gets by on around $26,000 a year. Waybright, who chairs the trust fund, renamed the Commerce Sports Authority, said the town had more modest ambitions now. There are plans to sell the land acquired a dozen years ago for the museum and use the money to fix up the grounds around a nine-foot bronze statue of Mantle. The spot would be called Mickey Mantle Monument Park. Progress is slow. Waybright at least wants to get a sign placed at the statue letting visitors know they can buy bricks ($107 apiece) and tiles ($277) to have them engraved with personal messages and installed along a paved path leading to the statue. “To be quite honest with you, the whole thing has been a great push, and we got a lot accomplished, but when you’re doing things with volunteers that have day jobs and other things, it becomes difficult,” he said. Over at the Dairy King, which is operated from a converted old Marathon gas station, Treva Duboise said she did not think Mickey Mantle would ever help her pay the bills. Not that she and her son, Charles, did not welcome the baseball pilgrims. He gives customers photocopied images of Mantle from his playing days. And if they stay around to eat an ice cream or order a hamburger, Charles, 49, will regale them with every tale he has heard about Mantle. But Treva Duboise is quick to open her guest book to show where most of her out-of-town customers are from, and it’s not baseball country: Italy, New Zealand, Ireland, Denmark, Norway and other faraway places. They come for a different kind of nostalgia: the storied Route 66, which passes through Commerce on its way from Chicago to Los Angeles. Among her clientele, Treva Duboise claims, there is more interest in a darker chapter in Commerce’s history, when an unsavory pair drove into town and killed a police officer about a year before the Mantles moved in. “More people come in here wanting to know about Bonnie and Clyde,” she said. “All over the world, they’re folk heroes.”