Husband, Father and Champion Make a Lot to Balance - The New York Times
ORLANDO, Fla. —  At his introductory news conference in Denver on Monday, the N.F.L. quarterback Mark Sanchez made a statement meant to underscore his commitment to winning. “I’m not married,” he said. “I don’t have a girlfriend. I don’t have kids. I just want to play ball.” Sanchez’s words contained echoes of a comment made 15 years earlier by Tiger Woods’s father, Earl, who told TV Guide that he didn’t expect his son to marry before the age of 30 “because he has a lot to accomplish.” He added, “And let’s face it, a wife can sometimes be a deterrent to a good game of golf.” Woods won his first major at age 21. Of his 79 PGA Tour titles, 40 came before his marriage, at 28, to Elin Nordegren. Woods, since divorced, inspired a generation to take up the game, and now that generation is poised to take over the game. Five of the world’s top 10, including the first three, are under age 29, which raises a question: In today’s game, do golfers with fewer personal responsibilities have a competitive advantage? Twenty years ago, the players in the top 10 averaged over 36 years of age and included two players in their 40s, No. 1 Greg Norman (41) and No. 9 Jumbo Ozaki (49), and only one, Ernie Els, 26 and No. 4, who had never married. Five months later, in August 1996, Woods turned pro at 20 and won twice before the season was over. In 2016, the youth movement that Woods ushered in has reached full flower. The players in the top 10 average 30.5 years and include none in their 40s and five in their 20s. The world No. 1, Jordan Spieth, is 22. He is followed by Rory McIlroy, who is the same age that Els was in 1996 and already has spent 95 weeks at No. 1. Two of the players in their 20s in the top 10, Jason Day, 28, and Patrick Reed, 25, are husbands and fathers. Day spent four weeks at No. 1 last year before his wife, Ellie, gave birth to the couple’s second child, daughter Lucy, in November. After last year’s Tour Championship, Day took a three-month hiatus from golf, time he deemed essential to spend with his family. Day, whose ranking has dropped to No. 3, acknowledged that the break hindered his progress in the short term. “Playing at an elite level against the best players in the world and trying to balance family life and personal stuff is difficult to do,” said Day, who has led after every round at the Arnold Palmer Invitational. But he harbors no regrets over his life choices. As Day noted, a golf career is long, but his children’s developmental stages are fleeting. “It’s very important for me to make sure that I see my kids grow up and obviously see the birth of my second child,” he said. Referring to Spieth, McIlroy and fifth-ranked Rickie Fowler, Day added: “They have got all those new experiences, if they want do it, to look forward to. Some are great. Most of it’s great. Some are very difficult to deal with, and that’s the balance that you have to find.” The juggling act that is fatherhood and a professional sports career has produced headlines and widespread debate in recent days, after designated hitter Adam LaRoche abruptly retired because his employer, the Chicago White Sox, requested that he scale back his 14-year-old son’s time to the clubhouse, where the boy was a regular presence. Besides Day, the only other father in the world top 5 in golf is No. 4 Bubba Watson. In a four-year span, the 37-year-old Watson and his wife, Angie, adopted two children, son Caleb and daughter Dakota. Within weeks in 2012, Watson became a first-time father and a first-time major winner. Either would have triggered an adjustment period. Managing both at once proved overwhelming. “For me, 2013 was one of my worst years,” said Watson, who failed to win for the first time since 2009. “And the thing that I pinpoint it to is adopting Caleb and winning the Masters. That’s a double whammy, and it took a while to learn how to manage all the responsibilities that come with both.” Watson was not complaining. He echoed Jack Nicklaus, the 18-time major winner and father of five, who said he gained motivation and much-needed balance from his marriage and family. “We can all hit the shots,” Watson said, “so for me, anyway, it’s all about the focus and the drive and the dedication. Kids are helping me realize what’s most important. I’m focusing on the right things, so it’s making me calmer in my mind.” Adam Scott was married in 2014 and became a first-time father in 2015 when his wife, Marie, gave birth to a daughter, Bo Vera. A month after the baby’s arrival, Scott, 35, returned to the tour and tied for fourth at the 2015 World Golf Championships event outside Miami. Then ranked fourth, Scott had fallen to No. 16 by mid-October. Noting that he and his wife made their daughter their overriding focus last year, Scott said: “Maybe that had some effect on my golf. Maybe my mind was not as switched on. It’s hard to know I don’t really care. I’m happy we did.” Scott joked, “I had no clue how to manage my wife or my daughter or my career at that point.” In recent months, the pieces of his life have fallen nicely into place. Scott, who spent 11 weeks at No. 1 in 2014, has a runner-up finish and two victories in his last three starts and is No. 6 in the world. “Had some big sit-downs at the end of last year and planned this year out a lot better, so we all know what we’re doing after nine or 10 months of having a child and how we’re going to manage that traveling around,” Scott said. “And so far, it’s gone well.” McIlroy, who turns 27 in May, recently became engaged to Erica Stoll, whom he has dated since November 2014. He looks at what Scott has done in the last two years and is encouraged. “As much as I bounce around the world,” McIlroy said, “I feel like I’ve managed my time well enough that if” — he was careful to emphasize the “if” — “a little one comes along, I’m able to spend enough time with the family but at the same time still do what I need to do on the golf course to be at the level I want to be at.” He added: “Look, it’s an adjustment; it’s an adjustment that I’m probably going to have to make in the next couple of years. I think it’s a great balance as well. I think to be able to get away from the golf and to be with your family and forget about your day job for a while is a great thing.”