Reggie Miller: Sharpshooter. Analyst. Coach? - The New York Times
Would Reggie Miller follow in the footsteps of the former TNT commentator Steve Kerr and move downcourt a few seats to coach someday? “I would never rule out coaching,” said Miller, a five-time N.B.A. All-Star and a member of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame. “But right now I enjoy having the best seat in the house, center court.” Miller, 50, will impart his expertise to viewers as a TNT analyst for the playoffs, as the channel’s coverage begins Sunday with a triple-header. Miller spent his entire 18-year playing career with the Indiana Pacers, retiring in 2005. He made 2,560 3-pointers, second to Ray Allen on the career list. Q. What are your picks to come out of the Eastern Conference and the Western Conference? A. Hard for me to see anyone in the East beating the Cavs and LeBron four games with no back-to-backs. Warriors in the West. They’ve been special all season and have a deep bench to sustain an injury, just not to Curry, Green or Thompson. Q. Do you have a dark-horse team? A. Boston. They are young and scrappy and well coached. Q. What team will win it all? A. The winner of the Warriors-Spurs wins it all, so since I picked Warriors in Question 1, Warriors. Q. Who would win a series between this year’s Warriors and the 1995-96 Bulls? A. It’s fantasy to know who would win. It’s good fodder to talk about around the water cooler. Instead let’s celebrate both teams for achieving greatness. Q. What under-the-radar player do you think will stand out in the playoffs? A. Hassan Whiteside has been spectacular in Miami’s success and wins, but disappears at times. If he’s locked in, he’s a difference maker. Q. Do you think LeBron James is so frustrated that he would leave the Cavs again? A. Another summer of LeBron and a decision. Oh, God! I hope not. I believe he’s all in with the Cavs, but then again I didn’t see him leaving the first time around. Q. Should James Dolan buy out Phil Jackson’s contract? A. It’s easy for us to say Dolan should buy out Phil Jackson. It’s not our money. How this summer and the draft goes will say a lot. Q. Should Carmelo Anthony waive his no-trade clause? A. Carmelo Anthony should do what makes him happy — either stay with the Knicks and be mediocre, or get with a contender and help them get over the hump. Q. You beat Drake in Ping-Pong. What would you like to do for your next challenge? A. Drake took me to the limit in our Ping-Pong challenge. We will have a rematch soon. After that I’m open to suggestions. Maybe a friendly game of darts with Stephen Curry. Oh, wait; that’s already happened. I won.