Opening Win Eases Sting of Pacers’ Troubles Last Season - The New York Times
For Paul George, missing the playoffs last year after being sidelined by injury most of the season was a painful experience. Now healthy, he could not be happier about being back in the postseason. George scored 33 points, Monta Ellis had 15, and the seventh-seeded Indiana Pacers beat the Toronto Raptors, 100-90, in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series Saturday. George missed all but six games last season after breaking his right leg while playing in a scrimmage with the United States national team before the 2014 World Cup. Without its star for much of the season, Indiana slumped to a 38-44 finish and missed the playoffs for the first time in five years. “That hurt more than the actual break, not getting this team to the playoffs last year,” George said. “This means a lot — it means a lot to be back here; it means a lot to be on this stage again.” After shooting 2 for 9 in the first half Saturday, George shot 10 for 13 in the second, a performance Pacers Coach Frank Vogel described as “awesome.” “The biggest reason we won,” he said. “Paul’s shotmaking late in the game was spectacular.” Jonas Valanciunas fouled out after scoring 12 points and setting a Raptors playoff record with 19 rebounds. The All-Star guards Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan struggled for the second-seeded Raptors. Lowry made 3 of 13 field-goal attempts, DeRozan 5 of 19. The two went 1 for 10 from 3-point range and 8 for 15 at the free-throw line. “I don’t think they’re going to shoot like that again,” Raptors Coach Dwane Casey said. Toronto shot 38 percent and made 20 turnovers, leading to 25 Indiana points. DeRozan finished with 14 points, and Lowry had 11. Cory Joseph scored 18. “We’re not panicking,” DeRozan said. “We understand we just played bad.” Toronto dropped to 0-8 in the first game of opening-round playoff series. This was the seventh straight playoff defeat for the Raptors. Two years ago, the Nets beat them in the final two games of a seven-game series, and last year, they were swept out of the first round by the Washington Wizards. “This is not last year,” Lowry said. “We’re very positive.” Solomon Hill scored 13 points while George Hill and Myles Turner each had 10 for the Pacers. Toronto has never won a seven-game playoff series. Its only victory was in a five-game series against the Knicks in 2001. HAWKS 102, CELTICS 101 Jeff Teague stymied another big Boston comeback, taking matters into his own hands in the closing minutes to lead Atlanta to a victory over the visiting Celtics in Game 1 of their opening-round series. Teague scored 23 points and doled out 12 assists, making sure Atlanta maintained the home-court edge after the gritty Celtics rallied from a 19-point deficit. With the score tied at 88-88, Teague worked a pick-and-roll to set up a layup for Al Horford. After the Hawks got the ball back, they again fed it to Teague, who found Paul Millsap alone under the basket for a dunk that pushed Atlanta to a 92-88 lead with 2 minutes 56 seconds remaining. The Celtics had a chance to tie the game in the final minute, but Evan Turner missed an open 3-pointer. Game 2 is Tuesday night in Atlanta.