 D.C. United welcomes MLS MVP Sebastian Giovinco and Toronto FC to RFK Stadium Saturday - The Washington Post
D.C. United vs. Toronto FC Where: RFK Stadium. When: Saturday at 5 p.m. TV: NewsChannel 8. Records: United 1-2-3, 6 points; TFC 1-2-2, 5 points. D.C. probable starters: GK Travis Worra; Ds Sean Franklin, Steve Birnbaum, Bobby Boswell, Taylor Kemp; MFs Patrick Nyarko, Marcelo Sarvas, Nick DeLeon, Lamar Neagle; Fs Chris Rolfe, Fabian Espindola. TFC probable starters: GK Clint Irwin; Ds Steven Beitashour, Damien Perquis, Drew Moor, Justin Morrow; MFs Marco Delgado, Will Johnson, Michael Bradley, Jonathan Osorio; Fs: Sebastian Giovinco, Jozy Altidore. MOMENTUM: After failing to score more than one goal in any of nine matches since the MLS playoff opener last fall, United erupted for four over a 52-minute stretch last weekend against the Vancouver Whitecaps en route to a 4-0 home victory. Argentine forward Fabian Espindola, who scored the first two goals, was named MLS player of the week. Costa Rican forward Alvaro Saborio scored the last two, both assisted by Argentine newcomer Luciano Acosta. Despite posting just one victory in nine games across all competitions, United has lost once since MLS opening weekend and conceded one goal in the past two matches. MORE WORRA: Travis Worra has recorded two shutouts and gained confidence and comfort in five starts since Andrew Dykstra underwent back surgery. Will he start again Saturday, or will Coach Ben Olsen give time to newcomer Tally Hall? “He seems like he is doing just fine,” Olsen said of Worra, a second-year pro from the University of New Hampshire. “He still has a ways to go. He’s been pretty steady and he just needs to continue to build and keep a high level of focus. He has earned the trust of the players. … We’re happy with his development and certainly put himself in a good light the last few games.” AWAY RULES: Toronto is nearing the end of eight consecutive away matches to start the season, a schedule necessitated by renovations to its home grounds, BMO Field. The club is winless in four straight, framing draws against New York City FC and the New England Revolution around defeats to Sporting Kansas City and the Colorado Rapids. Anchored by goalkeeper Clint Irwin, Toronto has conceded one goal in each of the past three matches. Italy’s Sebastian Giovinco, the 2015 MLS MVP, has scored three goals this year. U.S. striker Jozy Altidore recovered from a hamstring injury to make his first start last weekend. DEFENDING GIOVINCO: Last year, United allowed the 5-foot-4 Giovinco to score two superb goals during a 2-1 result at RFK, then closed him down during a 0-0 draw in Toronto. How do you stop him? “Limit time and space as much as possible, but he has so many different ways to hurt you, it’s a difficult task,” Olsen said. “It’s not one guy; it’s everyone doing a little bit extra to make sure that he has an uneventful night, but it’s very tough to do. He is the type of guy that can have an uneventful night for 80 minutes or [all but] 30 seconds. … If you can limit him, it gives you a good shot at getting the points you want.” KORB’S RECOVERY: Chris Korb, an outside back who started 96 regular season matches the previous five years, has yet to make his season debut after tearing an ACL late last summer. He is still a ways from being ready for match selection. “Korb has been a bit tortuous, especially for him,” Olsen said. “ACLs should take six months, but the more I’ve been looking into it, it’s not uncommon for these things to take a couple extra months, especially if you get some tendinitis in there and you don’t get a break or two. Certainly we could use him in training and we look forward to getting him back, but it’s been a bit of a tough process for him.” — Steven Goff