 Bryce Harper named to SI’s ‘Fashionable 50.’ What his style is, he can’t say. - The Washington Post
Chalk another one up for Bryce Harper. At 23 years old, he already owns a National League MVP, rookie of the year and Silver Slugger award. Now the noted fashionista has cracked Sports Illustrated’s inaugural “Fashionable 50″ list. In SI, Harper, whose clothing choices are often as bold as his play on the field, revealed who his fashion icons are and what he wants to achieve stylistically: I feel like I can’t put a title on my style because I am kind of all over the place. Sometimes I’ll walk in like I live in Texas—yes, I own boots—and then other days I’m like a rock star with ripped jeans and a leather jacket. But the one look in my closet that I can’t go without is a well-tailored suit, usually from my people back home in Las Vegas at Stitched. David Beckham and Tom Brady are two guys who have incredible style and I have always respected both of them on and off the field. They take pride in their appearance and how in the way they play and I have the same mentality. But no matter what look I choose, my hair and beard always have to be perfectly groomed. For Harper, image is everything, which is why he takes as much pride in his look as he does his game. His style has changed over the course of his six years in D.C., evolving from the clean-cut rookie with spiked hair to the bearded wonder with flowing locks.   [Bryce Harper’s suit jacket lining says it all: MVP ’15]   Bryce Harper has so much hair https://t.co/gIkfwPDyyn — Dan Steinberg (@dcsportsbog) April 6, 2015  In last month’s notorious ESPN the Magazine piece in which he said he wanted to change baseball’s unwritten rules, Harper also said that athletes in the sport are not known for their style outside of the ballpark. “Endorsements, fashion — it’s something baseball doesn’t see,” Harper said. “In soccer, it’s Beckham or Ronaldo. In basketball, it’s Curry and LeBron. In football, it’s Cam. Football and basketball have such good fashion.” That declaration echoes what he told Barry Svrluga last July. “Before I got into the game, I always thought to myself I want to change that aspect of baseball,” Harper said. “I want to change the nobody being with Gatorade or nobody being with high-profile companies like Under Armour or Nike or something like that, or being with a big brand in fashion or something like that. You look at all the other sports — football, basketball, soccer — they all have it. Baseball didn’t have that.”  Thanks to my man @juiceheadzup for the cut! Always doing something different..Can't wait till it's where I want it to be! #miamibarbers A photo posted by Bryce Harper (@bharper3407) on Mar 12, 2016 at 5:57am PST   Thank you to all the fans and the hospitality that Cincinnati showed at the @mlb All-Star game this year..I had an absolute blast with my family and all the fellas! Can't wait to get going this 2nd half of the season and really looking forward to everything to come #MLB #3rdAllStarGame A photo posted by Bryce Harper (@bharper3407) on Jul 15, 2015 at 8:45am PDT  My boys @UnderArmour always coming up big for me…Postseason time! #FUEGO #TeamUA pic.twitter.com/33GZbLwSV0 — Bryce Harper (@Bharper3407) October 2, 2014  Want to say thank you to @7Diamonds for having me out at the shop yesterday! Always appreciate it! #Clean pic.twitter.com/lJLmL4p6wN — Bryce Harper (@Bharper3407) January 28, 2014  Harper made quite the impression before last summer’s All-Star Game when he wore a tailored suit with Curly Ws and No. 34s lining the inside of his jacket and red shoes emblazoned with his personal BH34 logo. Bryce Harper's jacket lining and footwear during the MLB All-Star Red Carpet Show. pic.twitter.com/r1av2YZtp1 — Jake Russell (@_JakeRussell) July 14, 2015   Sunday Funday! Love dressing up for Church..God is good! @stitchedlife, is the best life! #XXXX A photo posted by Bryce Harper (@bharper3407) on Feb 8, 2015 at 2:11pm PST   Sorry bout that..Boys @stitchedlife really out did themselves with this custom BH/Curly W piece! #XXXX #NewYears2015 A photo posted by Bryce Harper (@bharper3407) on Jan 1, 2015 at 12:54am PST  As if mastering his own style wasn’t enough, Bryce even worked a side job as a barber for a commercial. #THIS is Bryce Harper. And this is how you cut hair.https://t.co/rXA7CjRoQN — MLB (@MLB) March 31, 2016 