 Maryland basketball targeting Duquesne graduate transfer L.G. Gill - The Washington Post
Maryland is one of several schools that have made contact with Duquesne graduate transfer L.G. Gill, according to a tweet from ESPN’s Jeff Goodman. Duquesne grad transfer L.G. Gill told ESPN he's been contacted by Marquette, Texas, Iowa St, Alabama, Cincy, ECU, Maryland – and more. — Jeff Goodman (@GoodmanESPN) April 14, 2016  The inquiry by Maryland comes in the wake of what has already been a wild and transformative offseason. The Terrapins will have to replace at least four starters from last year’s team, which includes power forward Robert Carter Jr. and freshman center Diamond Stone, both of whom have declared for the NBA draft and are hiring representation.   [Maryland’s Melo Trimble, Diamond Stone declare for NBA draft]   Maryland is also facing the prospect of replacing point guard Melo Trimble, who announced earlier this week that he will enter the NBA draft but will not hire an agent. That will allow Trimble to go through the draft process and preserve his amateurism until May 25, when he will have to decide whether he is returning to school or jumping to the league. The 6-foot-8, 225-pound Gill, who has also reportedly garnered interest from Cincinnati, Texas, Iowa State and Marquette, among others, is a Chesterfield, Va., native who played his prep ball at Benedictine College Preparatory in Richmond. He would provide an immediate boost on the perimeter and interior for Maryland, which is also bracing to replace senior forward Jake Layman. Gill announced in early April that he would transfer and becomes the first Duquesne player to take advantage of the graduate transfer rule. He is a seasoned Atlantic 10 player – he logged time in 94 career games, which included 42 starts over his final two seasons at the school – and he averaged 10.1 points and 6.5 rebounds per game last season. He also showed a more polished offensive game across the board. Gill improved his scoring average (+3.2), rebounding average (+2.4), field goal percentage (+.014) and 3-point percentage (+.014) from his sophomore to junior seasons, according to his bio on Duquesne’s athletic site.