 Wizards make Randy Wittman’s dismissal official - The Washington Post
As first reported Wednesday night, the Washington Wizards have fired Coach Randy Wittman, making the official announcement in a statement released Thursday morning. Wizards President Ernie Grunfeld is scheduled to address the media at noon at Verizon Center. “There were high internal and external expectations for this team coming into this season based on the momentum we had generated over the previous two years,” Grunfeld said. “Unfortunately, the inconsistency of the team’s performance and effort, particularly on our home court, did not allow us to meet those expectations and we decided a coaching change was needed.” The Wizards completed the 2015-16 campaign with a win over the Atlanta Hawks Wednesday to finish an unsatisfactory 41-41 and without a playoff appearance. Wittman, 56, had a team option and a partial guarantee for next season. He was paid more than $3 million in the first two seasons of his contract.   [Steinberg: Randy Wittman was one of the Wizards’ most successful coaches. Really.]   Wittman was promoted from assistant coach to replace his close friend Flip Saunders in January 2012 on an interim basis. He compiled a 178-199 record in four-plus seasons and led the team to consecutive playoff berths the past two seasons. Wittman oversaw the Wizards emerge from annual lottery participants to a playoff team by imbuing a defensive identity. Defense, however, was a significant problem for most of this season, which began with a slew of injuries and couldn’t get on track when the roster became whole. All the while, players criticized Wittman for his decisions, particularly his rotations and lack of in-game adjustments. Players also found his abrasive style overbearing as the campaign wore on. The team held a players-only meeting after a home loss to the Denver Nuggets at the end of January, and the locker room had tuned out Wittman by the middle of March. “Randy should be commended for the job he did in taking over as head coach during a very difficult time for our franchise and for helping to establish a culture and identity that led to success,” said Grunfeld.  “This was a very tough decision on a personal level, and we wish Randy and his family the best moving forward.”