 Four Western conference X-factors who will influence the NBA playoffs - The Washington Post
Much more than the regular season, in the NBA playoffs, specific advantages can persist from game-to-game. Players often step up or fall back as much because of these matchup advantages as the normal variation in performance that occurs over a season. Identifying the possible X-factors in each series is often difficult beforehand, but below are players who might swing each of the four Western conference series.   [Four Eastern conference X-factors who will influence the NBA playoffs]   Lance Stephenson, Memphis Grizzlies The Grizzlies have been ravaged by injuries to the point where only one other playoff team (Miami) has had more players appear this season than have started at least one game for Memphis. Unfortunately, two of the those on the shelf are their two best offensive creators in Mike Conley and Marc Gasol. Enter Stephenson. After a disastrous year in Charlotte in 2014-15 and a forgettable half-season with the Clippers, the 6th-year guard has played some of the best and most effective ball of his career in Memphis. He has achieved this by completely eschewing the three pointer (a career 10.1 percent three point attempt rate) to focus on relentlessly driving the lane to better utilize his best skills. Stephenson has not only matched the efficiency on his drives during his star-making last season in Indiana, but he has done so in a much larger offensive role:  The 1.22 points per scoring drive would be second in the league to only Kevin Durant if maintained over a full season. Stephenson’s ability to overwhelm individual defenders might be Memphis’s best shot for consistent offensive production against the stingy Spurs. Clint Capela, Houston Rockets The Warriors’ pick and roll was the single deadliest play in the NBA during the regular season. Get hung up on the screen, and Steph Curry drops a three pointer (the likely soon-to-be two-time MVP hit an absurd 42.8 percent of his pull-up three-pointers per NBA.com SportVU data. The league average is around 30 percent.) Trap Curry aggressively, and Draymond Green is able to receive the ball at the top of the key in an almost half-court, fast-break situation, which allowed Green to become the only forward not named Larry Bird to average over seven assists per game in the modern era. Switch, and Curry routinely embarrasses even the most mobile of bigs.   [What a Rockets upset of the Warriors looks like]   Capela, the Rockets’ Swiss second-year forward-center, is one of the few (along with Karl-Anthony Towns) to even moderately bother Curry in that situation. At least, that was the case in last year’s playoff encounter between Houston and Golden State. Additionally, Capela’s mobility, length and bounciness might enable the Rockets to take advantage of one of the Warriors’ few weaknesses, defensive rebounding. Golden State’s 76 percent defensive rebound percentage was slightly below average. Meanwhile, in the 300 minutes Capela played alongside Dwight Howard, Houston rebounded 36.7 percent of their own misses (which perhaps understates the effectiveness given Howard’s poor free throw shooting and the fact that missed free throws are offensive rebounded at a much lower rate than missed shots from the field.) Not only could this offensive rebounding add needed punch to a Houston offense which often becomes overly reliant on James Harden isolations, but could prevent Golden State from unleashing their own prolific fast break. Of course, none of that matters if Capela can’t defend in space well enough to allow these “twin tower” lineups to stay on the floor. Enes Kanter, Oklahoma City Thunder It is fair to say Kanter received one of the more controversial contracts during the 2015 offseason. As a restricted free agent, he received a four-year max offer from Portland, which the Thunder duly matched. While at first pass, Kanter put up impressive statistics in both Utah and Oklahoma City, this masked the unshakable notion that his defense was so porous as to give back everything his double-double-level production gained on the offensive end, if not more. Hardly the profile of a large salary big. However, first-year Thunder coach Billy Donovan did something very smart: He did not let Kanter’s contract dictate his playing time, limiting him to only 21 minutes per game. The majority of Kanter’s minutes (nearly 65 percent) came against opposing “bench units” with two or fewer starters on the floor, as opposed to only 19 percent of his playing time facing four or five of the opponent’s starters. This judicious playing time allowed Kanter to maximize his offensive advantages against reserves, who in turn were less able to capitalize on Kanter’s own defensive foibles. Though Kanter still registers as a negative in most areas of defense, he moved from disastrous (by far the worst rim protecting center in the NBA in 2014-15) to the range of somewhat below average. Against Dallas’s own offensively adept but defensively challenged backup David Lee, he could be just the extra bit of scoring the Thunder need to stay afloat when Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook sit. C.J. McCollum, Portland Trail Blazers The Blazers-Clippers series figures to be one of the most intriguing of the first round. The Clippers are working Blake Griffin back into the lineup following injuries and a served suspension, while this is the first postseason experience as a group for this rebuilt Portland squad. Even with Griffin’s return, one of the chief weaknesses of Doc Rivers’ squad has been inconsistent bench play, especially on the perimeter. The effect can be seen most directly at the start of second quarters. The Clippers were the worst team in the league from 12 to nine minutes left in the second, outscored by the equivalent of 16.4 points over a 48 minute game. The bench-versus-bench matchups in this series will likely feature McCollum shifting to the point to run Portland’s offense when Lillard sits. Portland was essentially breakeven in these circumstances, outscored by a total of 12 points in the 1,285 minutes McCollum played without Lillard. For Portland to pull the upset, winning those minutes when both Lillard and Chris Paul sit, will be a must. In this particular matchup, McCollum might find himself faced with either Jamal Crawford or Austin Rivers, neither of whom is especially distinguished on the defensive end. McCollum’s ability to get his own shot as well as create easy looks for the likes of Ed Davis and Allen Crabbe will go a long way to determining if Portland can generate the margins they need.