 Capitals take 2-0 series lead on Flyers on strength of fluke goal - The Washington Post
Braden Holtby kissed his mask twice before he fastened it over his head, part of his regimented game routine. When fans euphorically chanted his name, a clear “Holt-by” resonating through Verizon Center, he stuck to the routine, squirting water into his mouth, unfazed by the praise. The lasting image for the goaltender opposite him was a head hung in agony, the realization of an unthinkable mistake. A dump-in attempt that was tipped at center ice had somehow gotten through Steve Mason’s legs. The Philadelphia Flyers goalie stood, looked down at the puck in his net and swatted it out with his stick. Fans sang his name, too, but the tone was mocking. Mason’s miscue was pivotal in the Washington Capitals’ 4-1 win, giving them a 2-0 lead in the best-of-seven series. Holtby stopped 41 shots, the Flyers outplaying Washington at times in a game that will be remembered for a gaffe that should have been a routine save. It was Holtby that made his sixth playoff game with 40 or more saves look simple. “You just want to battle for as long as you can with the game that you’re handed, and that’s what happened tonight,” Holtby said. “Every game is different. You just have to react to it and take it one shot at a time.”  [Steinberg: Slapstick goal paves way for Capitals. Can they make this quick?]  Less than three minutes into the second period, defenseman Karl Alzner swatted a puck down the ice for a dump-in attempt that happens countless times during a game. At center ice, Jason Chimera got his stick blade on it, making the puck change direction slightly, but in pivoting to get a pad on the puck and deflect it toward the wall, Mason left some space between his legs and the puck got through. The Capitals had been going for a line change, but stunned, they celebrated at their bench. That goal gave them a 2-0 lead they were fortunate to have after the Flyers had a 19-5 advantage in shots on goal after the first period. “You never want to see it as a goalie,” Holtby said. “As a competitor, you don’t want to see it, you feel for the other guy. He’ll come back and he’ll come back hard.” “It wasn’t good,” Mason said. “My fault, obviously, put the team in a tough position after that. Just a bad goal.”  [D.C. Sports Bog: The Best and Worst from Game 2]  Washington Coach Barry Trotz and his players had repeatedly called Holtby the team’s MVP during the netminder’s 48-win season. In past playoff appearances, it was the opposing goaltender that morphed into a wall in front of the Capitals, the fan base still haunted by the likes of Jaroslav Halak and Henrik Lundqvist. But Holtby is a favorite to win the Vezina Trophy, the award recognizing the league’s best goaltender.  He played like it on Saturday night, stopping a whopping 30 shots through 40 minutes. The Flyers had just 19 shots on goal in Game 1, and Holtby pitched a shutout. On a five-on-three that lasted 1 minute 7 seconds, Holtby stopped three point-blank shots on goal within 15 seconds.  [Special teams are the difference for the Capitals again in Game 2]  “He finds a way to get his body in front of pucks,” Alzner said. “What’s really important to a defenseman is a goalie that battles hard to fight through the traffic to see, and he does that really well because we’re always trying to block shots and sometimes they get through and he still finds a way.” Said T.J. Oshie: “I think you can ask anyone in here, and Holts will get all the credit in the world. Definitely. I thought our [defensemen] and our low forward did a really good job limiting their second chances. They had a couple where they maybe could have had an empty net after the first save, and we did a good job of boxing guys out.” Holtby bought the team time. A first period that started without a shot on goal in the first six minutes of the game ended with a 1-0 lead for the Capitals. Momentum seemed to shift toward Washington after Alex Ovechkin’s hard hit on Brayden Schenn sent the Flyers center over the boards and into the laps of his teammates on the bench. About a minute later, Evgeny Kuznetsov drew a penalty by Brandon Manning, who held Kuznetsov’s stick when Kuznetsov had a puck at his feet directly in front of the Philadelphia net. Thirty-seven seconds into the ensuing power play, John Carlson ripped a wrist shot from the point and it cleanly navigated its way into the net. Mason was a victim of a double screen by the Capitals, with Marcus Johansson and Oshie blocking his vision. He tried to see around Johansson, picking the wrong side to look as Carlson’s shot beat him. Carlson scored a goal in the exact same fashion on a power play on Thursday night in Game 1. The Flyers cut Washington’s two-goal lead in half with a Jakub Voracek goal on an odd-man rush, but a holding penalty on Mark Streit 16:42 into the second period gave the Capitals’ power play another chance. Nicklas Backstrom weaved a pass from the right wall, through Oshie’s legs and to the left faceoff circle, where Ovechkin ripped a signature one-timer to restore a two-goal lead. The cushy lead and the complimentary chants didn’t change anything for Holtby. Flyers defenseman Shayne Gostisbehere ripped a slap shot off a draw, and as one added reminder of his dominance, Holtby fell into a full split and snared the shot with his glove. The crowd chanted his name again.