 Ernie Grunfeld visits Scott Brooks in California to discuss Wizards’ coaching vacancy - The Washington Post
As the number of head coaching vacancies around the NBA slowly dwindle, Wizards President Ernie Grunfeld traveled to California on Wednesday to meet with former Oklahoma City Thunder coach Scott Brooks about Washington’s head coaching position, according to people with knowledge of the situation. The Vertical reported that Grunfeld also offered Brooks the job with a contract that would pay Brooks “in the range of $7 million” per season. That salary would make Brooks one of the six highest-paid coaches in the league. Brooks has been the front-runner for the Wizards job since it opened when Randy Wittman, whose salary was just north of $3 million per year, was fired April 13 after four-plus seasons. Like Wizards Vice President Tommy Sheppard, Brooks is represented by agent Warren LeGarie. Brooks, 50, was out of the NBA this season after coaching the Thunder for six-plus campaigns. He amassed a 338-207 record and five playoff appearances as head coach after taking over for P.J. Carlesimo in November 2008 and never won fewer than 45 games in any of his six full seasons. Brooks led the Thunder to the 2012 NBA Finals, but the team never returned, partly because of untimely injuries for the remainder of his stint in Oklahoma City. He is a defense-first coach with a track record in developing young talent and previous success as a head man, all qualities the Wizards desire, but he was regularly chided for his substitution patterns and unimaginative offense during his tenure in Oklahoma City. Perhaps the most alluring line on Brooks’s resume is that he coached Kevin Durant in Oklahoma City, supervising Durant’s vault to superstar status over their time together, and the two are said to have had a good relationship. Durant will become an unrestricted free agent this summer, and the Wizards are expected to pursue the Montrose Christian product. Grunfeld is attempting to secure Brooks before other teams, particularly the Houston Rockets, can make a move on him. The Rockets are in the playoffs with interim coach J.B. Bickerstaff at the helm and are expected to release Bickerstaff once they are eliminated, which could be as early as Sunday evening against the Golden State Warriors. Brooks is reportedly at the top of Houston’s list of candidates along with former New York Knicks and Rockets coach Jeff Van Gundy. The Sacramento Kings also are looking for a head coach and are reportedly interested in Brooks, who grew up about an hour from Sacramento. On Wednesday, the Minnesota Timberwolves hired Tom Thibodeau as Coach and President of Basketball Operations. Thibodeau reportedly agreed to a five-year contract that could pay him as much as $11 million annually. If the Wizards land Brooks, it wouldn’t be the first time Grunfeld hired him: In 1996, Grunfeld signed Brooks, a 5-foot-11 point guard, when Grunfeld was the Knicks’ general manager. A year later, Grunfeld traded Brooks to the Boston Celtics.