 Redskins make offer to free agent cornerback Josh Norman - The Washington Post
The Washington Redskins have emerged as one of the front-runners to land free agent all-pro cornerback Josh Norman, three people with knowledge of the situation said on Thursday. Norman became an unrestricted free agent Wednesday after the Carolina Panthers unexpectedly rescinded the franchise tag from last year’s NFL co-most improved player. The Redskins have made an offer to Norman, and it was reported that Norman will visit Washington on Friday. The Redskins have been adamant about building through the draft, but signing Norman, in what could be the team’s first splash in free agency this offseason, could address a significant need in the secondary as cornerbacks Chris Culliver and Kyshoen Jarrett continue to recover from injuries. Culliver, the team’s top free agent acquisition last season, tore ligaments in his left knee on Thanksgiving while Jarrett, a sixth-round pick in 2015 from Virginia Tech, suffered a nerve issue in his right shoulder.   [Panthers make Josh Norman a free agent by rescinding franchise tag]   Norman has emerged as one of the top cornerbacks in the NFL. Listed at 6 feet and 195 pounds, he recorded a career-high four interceptions, two defensive touchdowns, three forced fumbles and 19 passes defended in 2015. He shared the most improved player of the year award with Redskins quarterback Kirk Cousins. He spent his first four seasons in the league with the Panthers, and it appeared he would remain with the NFC champions until they decided to allow the 28-year-old to become a free agent this week. The San Francisco 49ers are also reportedly seriously interested in acquiring Norman. While he was on the franchise tag, Norman’s camp looked for a long-term deal averaging around $16 million per year. It’s unknown at this point whether he’ll reach that figure, but there’s a good chance Norman receives more than the $13.9 million he was scheduled to receive on the franchise tag in 2016. The Redskins have so far spent free agency re-signing their own players and acquiring veterans on one-year deals, including defensive end Kendall Reyes, tight end Vernon Davis, safety David Bruton and linebacker Terence Garvin. Out of all the signings, Bruton received the most guaranteed money at $3.4 million for a three-year deal worth up to $10.5 million.   [Josh Norman is now a free agent. Will the Panthers end up regretting it?]   To make the signing work, the Redskins would possibly need to shed some cap space. They currently have $12.1 million in cap space available, which won’t be enough to sign Norman unless the deal begins with a low cap number for the first season. Washington could restructure expiring contracts to veteran wide receivers DeSean Jackson and Pierre Garcon, who have cap numbers of $10.2 million and $9.25 million, respectively. It could also cut players like wide receiver Andre Roberts or Culliver, which would save $4 million or $8 million, respectively, with the post-June 1 designation. The Redskins will also still need around $5 million to sign their picks in next week’s draft. Another potential logistical challenge is that Norman fired agent Michael George once it was known that the Panthers had rescinded the franchise tag and will now be represented by Ryan Williams, according to two people with knowledge of the situation. According to the rules, Norman must wait five days to proceed in talks with his new agent. The Williams hiring has been filed with the NFL Players Association but George’s termination has not.