 Maryland’s versatile Will Likely ready for centerpiece role in new-look defense - The Washington Post
Maryland defensive back Will Likely didn’t envision his final spring practice to end like this, with him in a gold jersey and limited to fielding punts. He announced last winter that he would hold off on the NFL draft to return for his senior season, which presents Likely with a chance to be one of the centerpieces of DJ Durkin’s new-look defense. But Likely has been dealing with a shoulder injury for much of the past two months and is unlikely to participate in Saturday’s spring game in College Park. “It was a little bit difficult at first … I was able to sit back and help the other guys around me and just take in the coaching from the coaches and things like that, and try to put it towards my game,” Likely said. Much like the first three years of his career, the final chapter at Maryland will have to be earned the hard way. It will also come on the heels of a memorable junior season, which was one of the lone bright spots during a depressing, transitional year for Maryland football. The program conducted a coaching change midway through the season en route to a 3-9 finish, but Likely was a force in all aspects throughout the entire year. Likely was named a first-team all-American by the Football Writers Association of America and second-team all-American by USA Today after leading the country with 1,197 total kick return yards, and he won the inaugural Rodgers-Dwight Big Ten return specialist of the year award after leading the league in punt return average (17.7 yards). There were a string of brilliant moments, which included Likely breaking a 76-year old Big Ten record with 233 punt return yards against Richmond in the season opener. He proved his versatility by starting 11 games (he missed the final game with an ankle injury) and amassing 44 breakups while primarily serving as Maryland’s number one cornerback. He was also asked to use his ability on offense later in the year, where he lined up in the backfield and the slot to help provide a boost to a struggling unit. What capacity Maryland uses him during his senior season remains to be seen, but Likely expects to be an impact cornerback first and foremost. He’ll have to carry a defensive backfield that was hit hard by graduation and loses three starters to graduation, including cornerback Sean Davis. Maryland has held open competition for the three starting positions over the past six weeks, and although Likely has been out for that stretch, he’s one of the few players entrenched at his position. He’s also the most electrifying player on special teams, and he continued to work on his craft earlier this week. Even though he couldn’t take part in full contact defensive drills, he progressed enough to field punts and begin a slow return to the field for his senior season. “It means a lot. Just knowing all of the work you put in, with the experience,  and you’re just able to showcase what you learn and what you learn,” Likely said.