 Wilson Ramos feeling good and seeing well at the plate - The Washington Post
PHILADELPHIA — Wilson Ramos hit his first home run of the season Thursday afternoon, a shot that helped push his OPS to .963, fourth among qualifying major league catchers. Ramos was sputtering after last weekend’s disjointed series against the Marlins. He expected a day off Monday against Atlanta, but Gio Gonzalez’s start was pushed back a day because of rain. Jose Lobaton normally catches Gonzalez, so his starts usually provide a day of rest for Ramos. But because of the switch, Ramos found himself in the lineup Monday. He went 4 for 4 — all singles — and upped his average more than 100 points in the process. Thursday, he went two for three with that home run. Ramos struggled through one of the worst offensive seasons of his career last year. Early in spring training, he underwent laser eye surgery. “After the surgery, I can read the pitcher better. I can see the ball bettter, recognize pitches really well,” Ramos said. “I’m excited for that. Last year (was) a bad year offensively, but this year, this season I worked a lot trying being better this year and doing well.” The Nationals do not need Ramos to anchor their lineup, and catchers are not generally relied upon for major offensive contributions. Ramos has said repeatedly that defense is his priority, and he admitted disappointment after he was named a Gold Glove finalist last season, but did not win it. Improved vision could obviously be of great use to anyone, whether behind the plate or at it, but manager Dusty Baker sees more contributing to Ramos’s hot start than just improved eyesight. “Also his concentration level’s high. His balance is good. And he wants it. I welcome that,” Baker said. “I thought he was going to have a big year for us right before the season started. He had an outstanding spring. He came in great shape. And he’s been working hard on blocking and throwing, what’s necessary as a catcher.” Ramos is back in the lineup Friday for the series opener in Philadelphia. He’ll catch Joe Ross, who has never faced the Phillies before. Discuss below, if you wish. LINEUP Taylor CF Rendon 3B Harper RF Zimmerman 1B Murphy 2B Werth LF Ramos C Espinosa SS Ross P