 The Caps (kind of) feel bad for Steve Mason after Jason Chimera’s goal - The Washington Post
Braden Holtby really felt for Philadelphia goalie Steve Mason on Saturday night. Less than three minutes into the second period of Washington’s second playoff game against Philadelphia at the Verizon Center, Jason Chimera tipped Karl Alzner’s dump-in attempt and Chimera’s deflection ended up in the back of the Flyers’ net. Chimera wasn’t even facing the goal. NHL.com’s game sheet listed the score as a “101-ft. tip-in.” Chimera was standing at the red line.  HOW DID THIS GO IN?! #StanleyCup #PHIvsWSH https://t.co/2HVNFM5M1N — NBC Sports (@NBCSports) April 17, 2016  Of all of the Capitals’ players who shared their thoughts on the fluke goal, Holtby was easily the most empathetic. “Couldn’t even watch the replay of it,” Holtby said. “As a fellow goalie, you never want to see that happen. I’m glad it wasn’t a one-goal game in the end, because — you know. And even as an opposing team, in the end you want to earn your goals and whatnot. Weird bounces like that, it’s just — I feel for him. But in saying that, we’re going to have to be extra prepared next game because he’s an NHL goaltender, he’s mentally tough, he’s going to be coming back with a very good game, and we’ve got to be ready for that.” Mason didn’t have much to say about the goal other than that it was “just a bad goal.” He did add that his teammates were supportive, but took total responsibility for letting the puck slide. “Endless support from the boys,” Mason said, “at the same time, it’s my fault, I realize that. It can’t happen moving forward.”   Chimera form the red line. pic.twitter.com/qvEakqU3t6 — Neil Greenberg (@ngreenberg) April 17, 2016  Other Caps players were a little less sensitive to Mason’s pain, particularly because it happened in a playoff game, and were therefore less willing to dwell on the embarrassment of the play. Both Alex Ovechkin and Matt Niskaned had seen flukes like that before. “We’ll take it,” Ovechkin said, “We’ll take it, and again, it’s done. We’ll move forward and Game 3 ahead.” Alzner provided a little more insight, and theorized the puck was probably hard to track because of the spin that get’s put on those types of deflections. “I didn’t know what was going to happen, but I saw when Chimmer touched it, the way he touched it is very conducive to spin, so I wasn’t expecting that to go in — I shouldn’t say I’m not surprised — but I could see why something like that would happen,” Alzner explained. “It’s timing, and if you just let it hit your blade, you don’t know which way it’s going to go. It’s like when you see a defenseman a lot of times try to pick up a puck around the boards when it gets dumped in. You watch him try and pick it up and it just shoots the other way, it’s just we have almost no chance unless you try and take it on your foot or something. It just happens. [Chimera] was stunned. He had no idea what happened. I was one of the first guys to him. I don’t know, you just take them. There’s no other way to put it. You’re just happy something went your way.”