 Remembering when Prince rocked the Super Bowl and the sports world - The Washington Post
Prince, who died Thursday at the age of 57, honored the sports world with his presence a number of times over the years, usually letting his music do the speaking for him. Most memorably, he delivered the best halftime performance in Super Bowl history in 2007, when he rocked Miami’s Dolphin Stadium in a pouring rain. “Can you make it rain harder?” he asked, when told that it would be raining during the show. Just watch for the behind-the-scenes story. One of the greatest Super Bowl Halftime performances of all-time. #RIPPrince https://t.co/B6aHzYUCoG — NFL (@NFL) April 21, 2016  “He’s just one performer shaking the entire world,” Jon Pareles of the New York Times wrote, and that actually felt like an understatement as he performed “Let’s Go Crazy,” “Purple Rain” and other songs in the 12-minute show. He may have topped it a couple of days before, though, when he turned the press conference the halftime performer does each year into a quick show. “At the first shout of a question, Prince turned his back to the audience of a few hundred reporters and burst into a hard-driving guitar riff that resonated like the first rumblings of thunder in an electrical storm,” Karen Crouse of the New York Times wrote. The lucky reporters heard him sing “Johnny B. Goode,” “Anotherloverholenyohead” and “Get on the Boat.” The Chicago Bears went on to lose that game to the Indianapolis Colts and, worse, they didn’t get to see Prince. “We’re not here to see the halftime show, and I understand and I know why,” Charles Tillman said. “But, you know, who wouldn’t like to see Prince?” He rocked sports and  Twitter almost two years ago when he hit the French Open while he was on a concert tour and — scepter and all — watched his pal, Rafael Nadal, play a little tennis. While we’re going to treasure that Super Bowl halftime show in our memory banks, let’s also pause to remember that Prince was also a pretty fair high school basketball player and there’s evidence to prove it. Another Prince-related clip from the Strib archives, looking back at his hooping days at Bryant Junior High. pic.twitter.com/LrIQZ3LhSg — Libor Jany (@StribJany) March 3, 2015  From the Strib archives: Chappelle was right. pic.twitter.com/icXBFGWkij — Libor Jany (@StribJany) March 3, 2015  When the Minnesota Lynx won the NBA championship last fall, no one was happier to throw a big party for them than Prince. He played for over three hours at Paisley Park. “I didn’t expect this party,” Maya Moore said (via the Star-Tribune’s Jon Bream). “Unbelievable.” And he jammed for 2 1/2 hours in New York during the NBA’s All-Star weekend in February. “On behalf of the NBA family,” NBA Commissioner Adam Silver told reporters at the annual meeting of Associated Press sports editors in New York,  “I want to let you know how sorry we are for him, his family and his millions of fans around the world.” In early March, Prince sat courtside to watch the NBA’s reigning monarch, Stephen Curry, and the Golden State Warriors play in Oakland. At a recent concert at Oakland’s Paramount Theatre, he said, “What can you truly count on besides Steph Curry? And you can count on Steph Curry.” Well, we always counted on Prince, too. Prince arrives to watch @StephenCurry30 @warriors play @okcthunder @OracleArena #prince @Prince3EG @ThompsonScribe pic.twitter.com/SGU1o2Lzxc — Jose Carlos Fajardo (@jcfphotog) March 4, 2016  We’ll leave you with this story about the time Prince rented a house in Beverly Hills from former NBA player Carlos Boozer: This is my favorite Prince story. It begins with him renting a house from Carlos Boozer: https://t.co/ThRKV6PCcy pic.twitter.com/F9EKPJHVoR — Albert Samaha (@AlbertSamaha) April 21, 2016  Sports editor Matt Vita contribute to this report from New York.