 The best possible NFL draft picks for the top Super Bowl contenders - The Washington Post
Getting value from players on their rookie contracts is imperative team success in the NFL today. An entire rookie class will cost a franchise less than $10 million against the cap the first season, while any major free agent signing will eclipse that figure and do so for multiple years. With that in mind, let’s identify the ideal draft pick for each 2015 playoff team that would provide the greatest impact in Year 1 and push them into Super Bowl contention. Washington Redskins Ryan Kelly, Center, Alabama The Redskins had one of the top offensive lines in the league a year ago … if you take out the play of their center position. Josh LeRibeus and Kory Lichtensteiger were poor fits in Bill Callahan’s scheme and got exposed routinely. Slot in Alabama’s center, Ryan Kelly, the No. 1 center on our draft board. He can both get movement on man-to-man run-blocking concepts (26 percent of Washington’s runs a year ago) and execute a reach block on outside zone (50 percent).   [Mock Draft: How the first round shakes out after the big trades]   Houston Texans Chris Jones, Defensive Tackle, Mississippi Houston has needs all over its offense, but the Texans are on the verge of a truly special defense. What better way to do that than to emulate the Broncos model and get another devastating interior pass rusher to pair with J.J. Watt. Jones tore through the SEC as a junior, collecting more pressures versus power conference schools (40 in nine games) than Robert Nkemdiche had all season (39 in 11 games). Jones would immediately give the Texans one of the league’s most effective sub-packages. Minnesota Vikings Josh Doctson, Wide Receiver, TCU He may only have one stellar year of college production, however it’s difficult to poke holes in what Doctson did in 2015. He led the nation in receiving grade despite missing three games due to injury. When Trevone Boykin targeted Doctson, his passer rating was a cool 149.2. Doctson has the freakish measurables (a 41-inch vertical at 6-foot-2) to be a true No. 1 receiver in the NFL, yet know one seems to be projecting him to the first half of the first round.   [The true draft needs for every NFL team]   Cincinnati Bengals Corey Coleman, Wide Receiver, Baylor With Marvin Jones and Mohamed Sanu walking in free agency, the spot across from A.J. Green is up for grabs. In a weak wide receiver class, there are still two legitimate number ones and Coleman is one of them. The main knock against Coleman is that his route tree at Baylor consisted of slants, hitches, screens and gos. Those routes though accounted for over two-thirds of Jones’s and Sanu’s targets a year ago. The only worry is if he’ll fall this far. Pittsburgh Steelers Karl Joseph, Safety, West Virginia However the chips fall leading up to pick 25, the Steelers should take the best secondary player available. They could fill either safety or corner and schematically Joseph would be ideal. The Steelers defense is at its most dynamic with two versatile safeties that can play freely and not tip the play call with their alignment. Joseph looks extremely comfortable both in the box or deep. His senior year he was on pace for some ridiculous grades against both run and pass before an injury cut it short after only 240 snaps.   [Trade shows Eagles really like Wentz, Browns really trust RGIII]   Seattle Seahawks William Jackson III, Cornerback, Houston Brandon Browner’s new contract may signal the return of the original Legion of Boom, but they won’t get back to that league-leading performance level unless they get an infusion of new talent. At a shade over 6-foot with 31-3/4-inch arms, Jackson fits Seattle’s length profile swimmingly. And with 18 combined interceptions (5) and pass breakups (13) a year ago, Jackson has the type of ball skills to fit in as well. Green Bay Packers Reggie Ragland, Linebacker, Alabama No position is in more dire need of an upgrade than inside linebacker for the Packers. Drafting a competent inside linebacker would also improve two positions by allowing Clay Matthews to return to the edge where he has graded out far better over his career. Ragland is such a sound linebacker, it’s hard to find many concerns with him other than he doesn’t quite do anything at an elite level. He graded out nationally as a top-10 inside linebacker against the run, pass and as a blitzer.   [Eagles make the wrong move in trade with Browns]   Kansas City Chiefs Cody Whitehair, Guard, Kansas State Running back Jamaal Charles has proven he doesn’t need much of an offensive line to be effective, but when the Chiefs have employed an above-average unit in front of him Charles’s production has been elite. Whitehair has a steadiness to his game well beyond his years and was PFF’s highest graded tackle in college football last year. He’s the type of talent that can be a top-tier guard from the moment he steps on an NFL field. New England Patriots Bronson Kaufusi, Defensive End, BYU With Chandler Jones’s departure and Rob Ninkovich losing steam with age, defensive end is suddenly an issue in New England. The Patriots ask their ends to play the run first while also containing any mobile quarterback. Kaufusi has elite length to play the run well on the edge. His 12.1 run-stop percentage a year ago was fourth best of any lineman in the nation. Arizona Cardinals Mackensie Alexander, Cornerback, Clemson Almost all of PFF’s analysts agreed Alexander is the cream of the crop for pure man-to-man cornerbacks in this class. His issues in zone though will scare off some teams and it’s rumored he may slip to the second round. It’s unlikely he slips past the Cardinals however. Arizona played man coverage on 44.7 percent of its snaps a year ago and got below-average production at cornerback outside of Patrick Peterson and Tyrann Mathieu (who plays slot). Alexander only allowed 19 catches in 14 games last year despite often times shadowing the opposing team’s top receiver. Carolina Panthers Shaq Lawson, Defensive End, Clemson Carolina obviously likes its defensive ends to have some substance behind them, and it doesn’t take more than a few plays to realize Lawson has that. His game is characterized by one word — power. Lawson graded out equally well versus both the run and pass because he is simply more explosive than the tackles he was facing. With Charles Johnson declining with age and Kony Ealy yet to prove much, Lawson would easily take over Jared Allen’s workload. Lawson might not fall all the way to No. 30, but he’d be worth moving up a couple of spots to get if necessary. Denver Broncos Paxton Lynch, Quarterback, Memphis John Elway can’t roll the dice with Mark Sanchez at quarterback and expect a defense that suffered serious attrition in free agency to lead Denver back to the Super Bowl. Lynch has more question marks than either Jared Goff or Carson Wentz, but the Memphis quarterback’s upside is undeniable. While Memphis’s scheme wasn’t overly complex, Gary Kubiak’s scheme will ease his transition with the frequent rollouts and heavy emphasis on the running game. Mike Renner is a writer for Pro Football Focus and a contributor to The Washington Post’s NFL coverage.