 Joe Ross dominant in first two starts of 2016 - The Washington Post
PHILADELPHIA — Just as half of a rookie season is not enough to be sure about what Joe Ross may be, two starts of the following season are hardly enough to say his early success will continue. But what Ross has done in those two starts — 14 2/3 innings, one earned run — seems to eliminate any notion of off-season regression. In starts against the Marlins and Phillies, Ross averaged the same number of walks per nine innings as he did last season, 2.5. He struck out fewer — 6.1 per nine as opposed to 8.1 — but allowed fewer hits per nine innings. Friday, as he held the Phillies to three hits over 7 2/3 shutout innings, he was helped by the fact that the Nationals scored five runs in the first inning, allowing him to be aggressive against a relatively inexperienced Phillies lineup. When he began to nibble in the third inning, he got into trouble, a bases-loaded jam from which he extricated himself by attacking Maikel Franco and getting a ground ball to short. “I was trying to do a little too much. Trying to throw the slider too nasty, I guess,” Ross said. “I got away from throwing strikes.” Lapses such as that were rare for Ross in his first two starts, and when he’s had them, he has limited damage. He has gotten as many fly balls as ground balls in each of those two outings, somewhat surprising given the sinking action on his fastball. But he continues to work quickly and efficiently. After that third inning Friday, Ross’s pitch count was nearing 50. He began the eighth inning at 93. “They were aggressive, so I had some quick innings,” Ross said. “Breaking balls and change-ups early in the count. I think that helped me manage my pitch count throughout the game. I felt pretty good. Fastball command was pretty good.” Ross is using his change-up more and his sinking fastball less than he did at the end of last season, according to Brooks Baseball. That change-up is key to Ross’s progression, and he was able to throw it for strikes Friday night. Ross has also been toying with the split-fingered fastball Jonathan Papelbon taught him, but did not get a chance to use it Friday, since he had feel for his true change-up. If someday he doesn’t, Ross said, he may try the split-finger.   [Joe Ross knows he needs a third pitch to progress]   With the change-up he has, Ross is tied for the second-lowest ERA among starters who qualify. He ranks among the early league leaders in batting average against, WHIP, and others. “He looked great,” Bryce Harper said Friday night. “…that’s Joe Ross for you. He’s a lot of fun to watch, a lot of fun to play behind.”