 You like that Redskins schedule? Rating every game for 2016 - The Washington Post
The Redskins’ 2016 schedule was released on Thursday night and it features three prime-time games, Robert Griffin III’s homecoming, a trip to London and a Thanksgiving Day date with Dallas. My colleague Mike Jones has some analysis of Washington’s schedule, but in what is becoming a yearly tradition, here’s a week-by-week look at how I excited I am for each game on a scale of one to five. (One image of Kirk Cousins shouting “You like that!” represents a potential snoozer and five images of Kirk Cousins shouting “You like that!” represents appointment viewing.)   [It’s time to retire ‘You like that!’]   Week 1: Monday, Sept. 12 vs. Pittsburgh Steelers (7:20 p.m.) The Redskins kick off the season in primetime; what could go wrong? Washington is 2-14 on “Monday Night Football” at FedEx Field, including a 23-6 loss to Byron Leftwich and the Steelers in 2008 that was among the 10 worst losses of the Daniel Snyder Era. That was Pittsburgh’s last regular season visit to Landover. I’m not excited for the inevitable “Terrible Towel” takeover, but I am excited for this game.  Week 2: Sunday, Sept. 18 vs. Dallas Cowboys (1 p.m.) Dallas Week is always fun and there’s a decent chance that Tony Romo will still be healthy at this point in the season. How many touchdowns will Alfred Morris score in his homecoming?  Week 3: Sunday, Sept. 25 at New York Giants (1 p.m.) It’ll be strange seeing Ben McAdoo on the Giants sideline instead of Tom Coughlin and Keenan Robinson in a Giants uniform.  Week 4: Sunday, Oct. 2 vs. Cleveland Browns (1 p.m.) YOU LIKE THAT! YOU LIKE THAT! YOU LIKE THAT! YOU LIKE THAT! YOU LIKE THAT! Redskins fans should be #AllInForWeek4, with Robert Griffin III making his return to FedEx Field.  Week 5: Sunday, Oct. 9 at Baltimore Ravens (1 p.m.) “Teams struggle with the quarterback position,” Ravens General Manager Ozzie Newsome said in March. “Philly signing [Sam] Bradford and Washington having to put the franchise tag on [Kirk] Cousins [are examples].” Don’t think the Redskins have forgotten that. This could be the game that Cousins goes from good to elite.  Week 6: Sunday, Oct. 16 vs. Philadelphia Eagles (1 p.m.) Out: Chip Kelly. In: Doug Pederson. With Kelly gone, will DeSean Jackson be as motivated to burn his former team?  Week 7: Sunday, Oct. 23 at Detroit Lions (1 p.m.) The Lions were already a boring team. They’ll be even more boring without Calvin Johnson.  Week 8: Sunday, Oct. 30 vs. Cincinnati Bengals in London (9:30 a.m.) Tea, crumpets, Coach Jay Gruden facing his former pupil Andy Dalton for the first time and a reason to set your alarm for Sunday morning.  Week 9: Sunday, Nov. 6 – BYE Week 10: Sunday, Nov. 13 vs. Minnesota Vikings (1 p.m.) The Redskins will have two weeks to prepare for Teddy Bridgewater and the defending NFC North champs.  Week 11: Sunday, Nov. 20 vs. Green Bay Packers (8:30 p.m.) A revenge game on “Sunday Night Football” after Aaron Rodgers and the Packers ended Washington’s season in the playoffs.  Week 12: Thursday, Nov. 24 at Dallas Cowboys (4:30 p.m.) I considered giving this game a single “You like that!” rating given that it means I’ll be working on Thanksgiving, but that would be selfish. This will be the eighth meeting between the Redskins and Cowboys on Thanksgiving.  Week 13: Sunday, Dec. 4 at Arizona Cardinals (4:25 p.m.) The middle portion of a rare stretch of three consecutive road games takes Washington to the desert.  Week 14: Sunday, Dec. 11 at Philadelphia Eagles (1 p.m.) Something tells me the stakes won’t be as high as the Redskins’ last trip to Lincoln Financial Field.  Week 15: Monday, Dec. 19 vs. Carolina Panthers (8:30 p.m.) Washington welcomes Cam Newton and the defending NFC champion Panthers to Landover. The back-and-forth between these two teams on Twitter leading up to the game should be fun.  Week 16: Saturday, Dec. 24 at Chicago Bears (1 p.m.) Christmas could come early for the Redskins, especially if Jay Cutler is in his usual giving spirit.  Week 17: Sunday, Jan. 1 vs. New York Giants (1 p.m.) Whether this game has playoff implications could determine New Year’s Eve plans.  To recap: 5: vs. Pittsburgh, vs. Cleveland, at Dallas 4: vs. Dallas, at Baltimore, vs. Green Bay, vs. Carolina 3: at Philadelphia, at N.Y. Giants, vs. Cincinnati, vs. Minnesota, at Arizona 2: at Philadelphia, vs. N.Y. Giants 1: at Detroit, at Chicago Which team will win the Monday night game at FedEx Field on Sept. 12th? Pittsburgh Steelers Washington Redskins We need to verify that you are an actual person. Pittsburgh Steelers Washington Redskins Which team will win the Sun. Sept. 18th game at FedEx Field? Dallas Cowboys Washington Redskins We need to verify that you are an actual person. Dallas Cowboys Washington Redskins Which team will win the Sun. Sept. 25 game at MetLife Stadium? Washington Redskins New York Giants We need to verify that you are an actual person. Washington Redskins New York Giants Which team will win the Sun. Oct. 2 game at FedEx Field? Cleveland Browns Washington Redskins We need to verify that you are an actual person. Cleveland Browns Washington Redskins Which team will win the Sun. Oct. 9 game at M&T Bank Stadium? Washington Redskins Baltimore Ravens We need to verify that you are an actual person. Washington Redskins Baltimore Ravens Which team will win the Sun. Oct. 16 game at FedEx Field? Philadelphia Eagles Washington Redskins We need to verify that you are an actual person. Philadelphia Eagles Washington Redskins Which team will win the Sun. Oct. 23 game at Ford Field? Washington Redskins Detroit Lions We need to verify that you are an actual person. Washington Redskins Detroit Lions Which team will win the Sun. Oct. 30 game at Wembley Stadium? Washington Redskins Cincinnati Bengals We need to verify that you are an actual person. Washington Redskins Cincinnati Bengals Which team will win the Sun. Nov. 13 game at FedEx Field? Minnesota Vikings Washington Redskins We need to verify that you are an actual person. Minnesota Vikings Washington Redskins Which team will win the Sunday night game at FedEx Field on Nov. 21? Green Bay Packers Washington Redskins We need to verify that you are an actual person. Green Bay Packers Washington Redskins Which team will win the Thanksgiving Day game at AT&T Stadium? Washington Redskins Dallas Cowboys We need to verify that you are an actual person. Washington Redskins Dallas Cowboys Which team will win the Sun. Dec. 4 game at University of Phoenix Stadium? Washington Redskins Arizona Cardinals We need to verify that you are an actual person. Washington Redskins Arizona Cardinals Which team will win the Sun. Dec. 11 game at Lincoln Financial Field? Washington Redskins Philadelphia Eagles We need to verify that you are an actual person. Washington Redskins Philadelphia Eagles Which team will win the Monday night game at FedEx Field on Dec. 19? Carolina Panthers Washington Redskins We need to verify that you are an actual person. Carolina Panthers Washington Redskins Which team will win the Sat. Dec. 24 game at Soldier Field? Washington Redskins Chicago Bears We need to verify that you are an actual person. Washington Redskins Chicago Bears Which team will win the Sun. Jan. 1 game at FedEx Field? New York Giants Washington Redskins We need to verify that you are an actual person. New York Giants Washington Redskins  This is a non-scientific user poll. Results are not statistically valid and cannot be assumed to reflect the views of Washington Post users as a group or the general population. 