 Flyers enter Game 2 vs. Capitals looking to ‘prove that we belong here’ - The Washington Post
Since its Stanley Cup playoff berth was clinched, the Philadelphia Flyers have lost a beloved owner, Game 1 of its Eastern Conference quarterfinal series and their second-line center. But they walked around the hallways at Verizon Center Saturday morning with the same spirit that got them to this point, locked in a postseason duel with the NHL’s best team. “It’s not that bad,” Coach Dave Hakstol said as he walked away from a scrum of reporters. “We got life.” “We’re itching to go out there and prove that we belong here,” added Flyers defenseman Shayne Gostisbehere. “We’re a team to be reckoned with.” But how Philadelphia adjusts after the Capitals’ 2-0 win in Game 1 remains unclear following a morning skate short on specifics.  The Flyers worked on their power play, but did not show their line rushes as Hakstol declined to reveal many details concerning his Game 2 lineup, or any other position shifts. Though several players indicated forward Scott Laughton would be called on to replace injured center Sean Couturier, Hakstol said he will dress 13 forwards for pregame warm-ups and make a game-time decision. Captain Claude Giroux did not take part in the morning skate, but assured reporters he would be fine for Game 2. Laughton played in 71 games this season and would add an additional speed component to the Flyers’ bottom-six forward lines. This would be his first Stanley Cup playoffs appearance. “I was in the playoffs four years with Oshawa [of the Ontario Hockey League],” he said. “I know it’s a little bit different.” The importance this evening could have on the complexion of the rest of the series with Washington was not lost on anyone. “We get the win here, we tilt home ice in our favor,” forward Wayne Simmonds said. “Obviously, that’s the goal. We want to come out here and play just as well as we did last game defensively, but get more to the net offensively.” Regardless of who plays, the entire Flyers organization seems hell-bent on getting more pucks, and more traffic, in front to bother Capitals goalie Braden Holtby. It was the first thing Flyers General Manager Ron Hextall mentioned during a brief session with reporters.  Philadelphia mustered just eight shots on goal during the final two periods of Game 1 and went 0 for 4 on the power play, part of a late-season slump with the man advantage that Hakstol spent several minutes trying to remedy during Saturday’s morning practice session. When asked about the double teams Washington’s penalty kill employed in Game 1, Giroux flashed a smile and some gamesmanship. “They’re double teaming me?” he said. “I don’t know. I didn’t see that. But we’re five against four, so I better move the puck, right?” Whatever changes the Flyers may employ, he added, don’t expect them to veer too much from the grinding, physical style that prevailed during their surge to the playoffs and throughout Game 1.  “I think all year during every game, I think if we didn’t get any offense or didn’t get any goals, I think we did a good job of sticking with it, sticking with our game plan, and sticking with how we want to play,” Giroux said. “Our chances are going to come, and we just need to bury them.”