 First-minute lapse is D.C. United’s downfall in home loss to Toronto FC - The Washington Post
Not a minute had passed Saturday when D.C. United’s bad habits resurfaced. The trouble began some 30 yards from the net, and in a flash, the ball was unattended in the six-yard box, rolling toward the left foot of Toronto FC’s Italian dynamo, Sebastian Giovinco, MLS’s 2015 scoring champion and MVP, for a simple goal. And just like that, United Coach Ben Olsen said, “Everything you do all week now changes because of one minute.” For the next 89 minutes plus stoppage time, United had no answers in dropping a 1-0 decision before 16,236 at RFK Stadium. “It’s not a way to start a game against a very well-organized team that was prepared to come in here and sit back and defend at 0-0,” Olsen said. “Now it’s 1-0 and you have to chase the game for 90 minutes.” United had been bedeviled by early goals last year, particularly at home, and conceded goals at the start of both a CONCACAF Champions League match and an MLS regular season game this spring.  [Lohman’s bicycle kick lifts Washington Spirit in NWSL opener]  “It can’t happen again,” center back Steve Birnbaum said. “It’s going to kill us.” United (1-3-3) put in the effort required to salvage a point or pull out a victory, accumulating 18 shots overall as well as the bulk of possession, but lacked bite in the final third of the field and placed only three of those shots on goal.   “The final touch, the final idea, just wasn’t good enough,” midfielder Nick DeLeon said. A week after scoring four against Vancouver — two on rebounds and two in the dying moments — United truly tested Toronto goalkeeper Clint Irwin just once. United was blanked for the third time in the regular season and fourth time in nine games overall, falling to 1-2-2 at home across all competitions. “It’s just that inconsistency,” midfielder Patrick Nyarko said. “We started off the year not scoring a lot of goals, and then we exploded the previous game. The challenge was to keep it going. We felt we had a couple of goals in us.” Instead, United experienced an immediate breakdown.  Jonathan Osorio played the ball through to an unmarked Jozy Altidore, who stayed onside and crossed to the back side. Marky Delgado beat United’s Taylor Kemp to the ball and, with a sliding touch, crossed to Giovinco. Neither of the center backs, Birnbaum and Bobby Boswell, noticed the league’s best player slipping into the channel between them for the fastest goal in Toronto’s history (57 seconds). After that early fiasco, United was pretty good for the rest of the half. It discovered space and promise at the other end, both in the run of play and on set pieces. Lamar Neagle’s off-balance one-timer inside the six-yard box missed the near post by a whisker, and a 14-yarder by Nyarkowas was turned away by Irwin. United dictated terms after intermission but continued to lack punch in and around the penalty area. Olsen brought on Alvaro Saborio, a two-goal scorer last weekend, and Luciano Acosta, a two-assist man last weekend.  [Four a change: Women’s league reaches unprecedented milestone]  Toronto (2-2-2) allowed United to keep as much possession as it wanted but absorbed pressure and clogged the middle, forcing the hosts to find answers on the flanks. United was left to serve long balls into box and force entry passes into heavy traffic. Irwin commanded the penalty area, punching out and pulling down high balls, and his defenders tracked back quickly to thwart United’s counterattacks. Travis Worra preserved D.C.’s faint hopes in stoppage time with a fine save on Will Johnson, but United was done. “There is still a lot of good to what we are doing,” Olsen said. “I still like the way this team is playing. There is still some tinkering in what I need to do in figuring out exactly what makes us at our best. That is part of the season. That’s part of this journey.”  Notes: Mayor Muriel E. Bowser will join club officials April 25 at the site of the Buzzard Point stadium project for a demolition event, a symbolic ceremony ahead of an anticipated groundbreaking later this year. The event, which will be at Second and S streets Southwest, is open to the public and will start at 11 a.m. The club is aiming to open the 20,000-seat venue near Nationals Park in spring 2018.