 It’s now official: MLS suspends D.C. United Coach Ben Olsen for 1 game - The Washington Post
Ben Olsen was suspended one match by MLS not for berating a referee (he’s done that), making salty postgame comments (oh, he’s done that) or getting into a scrap with his sideline counterpart (yeah, that’s happened). D.C. United’s head coach was reprimanded for stepping across the sideline during play to drag a stray, second ball off the field Saturday at RFK Stadium. On Thursday, the league made an official announcement but did not attach the video evidence, as it often does in such cases. Olsen is barred from the bench this Saturday when United hosts the New England Revolution. MLS said he “violated the league’s entering the field of play policy in the 80th minute.” The live TV broadcast showed Olsen approaching the ball but then followed the flight of a cross-field pass while he stepped onto the field. The MLS disciplinary committee used alternative video and other input to confirm the infraction. On Wednesday, Olsen told the Insider that he had been suspended. “I agree with the rule itself,” he said of the guideline intended to dissuade inactive players or coaches from leaving the sideline. “But the rule is supposed to stop coaches from doing anything that might set off trouble or affect the action. That has nothing to do with what I did. I retrieved a loose ball off the field while another ball was in play. I’m not sure enough thought was given to this from the disciplinary committee as my only intention was to make sure the ball was out of play. It’s absurd that I have to watch this [weekend’s] game from the stands.” He was not the only figure suspended this week for violating the rule. Orlando City midfielder Antonio Nocerino will miss one match because he left the bench and ran onto the field to celebrate Kevin Molino’s goal in stoppage time against New England. In announcing that suspension, MLS included video evidence. Last month, Colorado Rapids attacker Shkelzen Gashi was suspended one game for racing onto the field in celebration of a last-minute goal.