 Patriots safety Nate Ebner absorbs a blast in his return to rugby pitch - The Washington Post
Nate Ebner is usually the one dishing out hits as a safety and special teamer for the New England Patriots. But on Friday in Singapore, he a got a dose of his own medicine — on a rugby pitch in Singapore. Via World Rugby:  Before Ebner was an NFL player, he was an up-and-coming rugby star, recognized as the Team USA MVP in the Under 19 and Under 20 IRB Junior World championships. But the New England Patriots granted him a leave of absence after this past season, as he tries to earn a spot on the US National Rugby Team for the 2016 Rio Olympics.  He’s had a tough time transitioning, telling Singapore’s TODAY newspaper that his first few weeks of training were “brutal.”   [Patriots player leaves team to train for U.S. Olympic rugby team]   “I would say that rugby sevens training is one of the toughest I’ve ever had to go through,” Ebner told TODAY. “You don’t get better at it until you push yourself to the point of exhaustion, where instead of resting, you have to keep on working harder. “When I’m training for the NFL, I’m used to a lot of heavy lifting, explosive movements and high-effort workouts. But these things are usually done for brief moments. So it’s not as taxing on your body as compared to the shock your nervous system gets (in sevens) when your cardiovascular system is pushed to the limit time and again. “It takes a lot of getting used to, especially for the bigger guys. It’s not fun, but that’s the sacrifice you have to make if you want to play the game at a top level.” A sixth-round pick in the 2012 draft, Ebner has made a name for himself under Patriots Coach Bill Belichick, and signed a two-year, $2.4 million contract ($250,000 guaranteed) on March 15, the same day he was granted the leave of absence.  Ebner has a few more opportunities to show he’s worthy of a spot on the Olympic squad, which will be announced on July 5. He said he’s confident he’ll make the cut, but that he has a few areas to work on, including his cardio, passing and catching. If nothing else, he’s shown he can take a hit without coughing up the ball.  