 Sean Couturier’s injury spells doom for the Flyers - The Washington Post
The Philadelphia Flyers will be without forward Sean Couturier for the remainder of their Eastern Conference first-round series against the Washington Capitals. Couturier suffered an AC sprain in his left shoulder after taking a hit from Alex Ovechkin midway through the second period and could miss up to two weeks. the hit that gave Couturier an upper body injury pic.twitter.com/C6KwehYgFH — Stephanie (@myregularface) April 15, 2016  The loss is huge for Philadelphia. This season, the Flyers were 35-18-10 when Couturier was in the lineup, and 6-9-4 when he wasn’t. Perhaps even more importantly, Couturier was the go-to forward on defense. “He’s been such an integral part of shutting down oppositions,” goaltender Steve Mason said of Couturier after the game. “And providing some offensive spark, as well. He’s not an easy guy to replace, but guys have stepped up this year when we needed them.” Couturier produced 11 goals and 28 assist during 63 games this season, plus held opponents to a career-low 22.3 scoring chances per 60 minutes at even strength with less than half those (9.2) originating in the slot or the crease. The 23-year-old center only played two games against Washington during the regular season, but he held Alex Ovechkin to zero points and zero shots on goal in 18 minutes and 34 seconds of even-strength ice time. Before that, Ovechkin scored just two points — both assists — in the 104 minutes they shared on the ice. In Game 1 of the playoffs, Couturier skated 25 percent of his minutes against Ovechkin, Nicklas Backstrom and T.J. Oshie. When the Flyers played the Capitals at home in March, giving them last change in the faceoff dot, it was 65.6 percent. “Obviously, ‘Coots’ is a huge piece of our team,” Wayne Simmonds said. “When he goes down, someone else has to step up.” Coach Dave Hakstol suggested that might be Brayden Schenn. “[Schenn] has been in that spot for us at other times when need be,” Hakstol said. “We’ll look at a lot of different things. If we need to fill that spot, we’ll take at a couple of different things, including Brayden.” Schenn allowed 29.3 scoring chances per 60 minutes at even strength and 11.9 high-danger chances per 60 this season. In addition, the Flyers took fewer shot attempts with Schenn on the ice than they did without him, further indicating the team will see a defensive drop off with Couturier on the shelf.  The effect will also be felt on the offensive side of the ice. Before Couturier was injured, he skated with Michael Raffl and Schenn, a line that scored 3.2 even-strength goals per 60 minutes of ice time during the regular season. After he left the game, Sam Gagner took over in his spot, forming a combo that has played just 11 minutes together this season — they allowed one goal and eight shot attempts against in that span. “You know, injuries are a part of it, and we’ve dealt with it all year long and we’ll do the exact same thing now; if he’s not available, our team will deal with it,” Hakstol said. “That’s how it is during playoff time.” That's Ovechkin for you. In a game he doesn't get a point, he still somehow changes the entire series. — Isabelle Khurshudyan (@ikhurshudyan) April 15, 2016 