 Battlefield sophomore takes to being out of the water - The Washington Post
Battlefield sophomore Emily Wall spent her Saturday morning trying to strike the difficult balance between mental preparation and overthinking as she readied herself for the day’s events at the Bullis Bulldog Invitational. Wall visualized her races — the 800 and 1600 meters — until the thinking turned to nervousness, until she started worrying about what could go wrong.  At that point, she said a prayer and directed her attention elsewhere. The nerves stemmed from Saturday being her first time running the 800 in her first season running track since the coaches lured her from the swim team.  At the conclusion of her final race, a relieved Wall smiled as she recounted both outcomes — a victory in the 800 in 2 minutes 22.73 seconds and a third place finish in the 1600 at 5:23.36, just over 15 seconds faster than her previous personal best — along with her plans for the night. “Probably an ice bath, watching a movie,” said Wall, still catching her breath from the 800. “Nothing high-key.” Marshall’s Heather Holt claimed first place in the girls’ 1600 in 5:13.80.  Holt had a long day of her own, making a pit stop at Walter Johnson to run in and win the 4x800 at the Viking Invitational in the morning.  Holt, no stranger to running in two or more events at the same meet, shrugged off the suggestion that it might be taxing. “I had a lot of time,” Holt said. “It was great.” Eric Harrison from St. John’s claimed first in the boys’ 100 in 10.82 seconds. It was his first 100 since he returned from the pulled hamstring he suffered at New Balance Nationals Indoor last month in New York.  As he was striding down the stretch, he slowed. “My coach was telling me to shut it off,” Harrison said. “I could hear him, so I had to listen to him.” Riverdale Baptist’s Stephanie Davis won the girls’ 100, clocking 11.97. She said she hopes to be around 11.5 seconds by the end of the season and saw Saturday’s race as an opportunity to improve her form. “I’ve got to focus on getting my knees up,” Davis said. “Making sure my arms are moving in great form and not outside because that’s going to slow me down.” And for the home team, Bullis’s Lauryn Harris and Masai Russell finished second and fourth in the girls’ 400 with times of 56.37 and 56.73, respectively. “We work well together,” Harris said. “She pushes me to run better, and we work as a team to help each other become better runners.”