 NFL draft: What the Redskins could and should do at linebacker - The Washington Post
Insider’s draft overviews: QB | WR | OL | DL| LB | CB | S What Washington should do at QB, WR, OL, DL, CB & S Detailed top 10s: QB | RB | WR | TE | OL | LB | Rushers | CB The Redskins’ defense finished 28th overall last season, surrendering more than 380 yards per game, so there’s hardly a position on that side of the ball that couldn’t use an upgrade or more depth. The good news for General Manager Scot McCloughan heading into the NFL draft, which gets underway April 28 in Chicago, is that the positions of greatest need — defensive tackle and defensive back — match up nicely with the available talent coming out of the college ranks.   [This year’s draft is strong where the Redskins are weak]   But the ranks at linebacker — both inside prospects and defensive end/outside linebacker hybrids to rush the passer — are pretty thin. And that’s not terrible for the Redskins, either, who don’t have a pressing need at the position, given the players they’ve got returning and, ideally, rehabilitating from injury. Sure, every general manager would love to add another pass rusher to terrorize opposing quarterbacks. McCloughan is no exception. But as ESPN draft analyst Louis Riddick put it in a conference call with reporters this week, it’s just not a good year to be shopping for an outside linebacker. To recap the Redskins’ situation: The reliable Ryan Kerrigan returns for his sixth NFL season, having logged 23 sacks over the past two seasons. If all goes well with Junior Galette’s recovery from a torn Achilles’ tendon, Kerrigan and Galette will line up for the Sept. 12 season opener on Monday Night Football. In addition, the Redskins are counting on second-year player Preston Smith, who came on strong during the team’s late-season surge to the playoffs, to continue developing after a slow-starting rookie campaign. Still, having another pass-rushing specialist would help, as third-year veteran Trent Murphy transitions to a role on the defensive line. At inside linebacker, Will Compton emerged as more than capable when called on last season, starting 10 games, including the final eight, and finishing with 96 tackles, second most on the squad. He’s joined by returning players Mason Foster and Perry Riley Jr. After letting the often-injured Keenan Robinson depart, McCloughan bolstered the inside ’backer ranks with the pickup of free agent Terance Garvin (6-2, 222), who, like veteran Adam Hayward (rehabbing from an anterior cruciate ligament injury), is eyed primarily for special teams. So the Redskins’ best draft-day play at linebacker is to sit tight through the first round and focus instead on adding a lights-out defensive tackle, cornerback or safety with their 21st overall pick, assuming they don’t deal it for more picks later. Then, in the third or fourth round, if they have a chance to add a pass rusher with a promising upside, they should. Riddick believes Noah Spence is worth the risk, calling him “quite honestly, the best pass rusher in this draft.” A defensive end who’s projected as an edge rusher in a 3-4 defense, Spence was kicked off the team at Ohio State after failing repeated drug tests and went on to register 11½ sacks at Eastern Kentucky. In Riddick’s view, Spence would be a first-round lock were it not for character concerns. McCloughan brought him to Redskins Park for a face-to-face interview, but it’s unclear if the visit eased his mind. The draft-day price for the top linebackers — pass rushers Myles Jack of UCLA and Georgia’s Leonard Floyd; inside ’backer Reggie Ragland of Alabama; Ohio State’s versatile Darron Lee, among them — will be more than the Redskins should pay, given their other, more-pressing needs. But they might consider such mid-round pickups as Temple’s Tyler Matakevich, Arizona’s Scooby Wright, West Virginia’s Nick Kwiatkoski or Louisiana State’s Deion Jones. More from the Post: Another huge trade, another fresh mock draft Josh Norman is a free agent. Will Panthers regret it? Jean Francois does not want you to read this RGIII post More NFL: Redskins | League news | Draft coverage Follow: @MikeJonesWaPo | @lizclarketweet | @MasterTes