 Michael Jordan can’t bring himself to tell Tiger Woods the truth about his future - The Washington Post
Tiger Woods has been consulting an old friend as he ponders the approaching end of his golf career, but not even Michael Jordan can quite figure out what to say to the 40-year-old man who is confronting his golf mortality. In a lengthy new ESPN story that examines Woods’s relationship with his father, the role of the military in his life and the spectacular way in which his marriage unraveled, Wright Thompson writes that Woods recently “asked Jordan a simple yet heavy question: How did you know when it was time to walk away?” If anyone can understand what Woods is going through as his skills decline and he begins to consider life as something other than the world’s most recognizable athlete, it’s Jordan. It’s a “reckoning” that, Thompson writes, concerns Jordan.   [Woods may be returning sooner than people think]   “I don’t know if he’s happy about that or sad about that,” Jordan said. “I think he’s tired. I think he really wishes he could retire, but he doesn’t know how to do it yet, and I don’t think he wants to leave it where it is right now. If he could win a major and walk away, he would, I think.” Woods’s recovery from his latest back problems has been slow. He missed the Masters earlier this month and, now that he’s swinging a golf club again, he may be aiming to play in the Players Championship or the Memorial. The next major, the U.S. Open, looms in June. Last fall, Jordan recounts a story of having dinner with friends at Woods’s Florida restaurant. He was, according to Thompson, hopeful because Woods seemed relaxed, with little talk of the future. “The thing is,” Jordan told Thompson, “I love him so much that I can’t tell him, ‘You’re not gonna be great again.’ ” Jordan talks carefully, with no bravado or swagger, trying to say something important and true and empathetic — maybe hoping his friend will read it? — without crowding Tiger or saying too much. Jordan struggled and flailed in the years after he quit basketball, feeling like he’d hard-wired himself with all of these urges that now worked against any hope of future happiness. For years, he just tried to pretend like he wasn’t lost. Time stretched out in front of him endlessly, and this same emptiness awaits Tiger. Jordan admits that Woods, whom he calls “Rabbit Ears,” hears everything and realizes that he cannot turn the clock back to 2006, when the golfer was rocked by scandal about his marital infidelities, his marriage ended and he entered rehab. “He wants to erase the things that happened,” Jordan said, but that’s a wish no one is granted. Woods and former Olympian Lindsey Vonn ended their relationship last year and now he focuses on being a doting dad to his son and daughter. “He has …,” Jordan paused as he told Thompson, “no companion. He has to find that happiness within his life, that’s the thing that worries me. I don’t know if he can find that type of happiness. He’s gonna have to trust somebody.”