 Ben Revere is ‘doing better’ and makes trip to Philly on manager’s orders - The Washington Post
PHILADELPHIA — Dusty Baker did not have much of an update on Ben Revere’s health Friday, other than to say the outfielder is “doing better.” Revere strained his right oblique on his first swing of the season. Neither he, nor Baker, nor casual clubhouse observation indicates he has begun any type of baseball activity, and that is not surprising. Oblique injuries normally cost players about a month, and, given that the core is involved in most major movements, they are easily aggravated. But despite not being imminently ready to return, Revere traveled to Philadelphia with the Nationals. “I wanted him to come on this road trip, be a part of the team and also see what he can see,” Baker said. “If there’s anything he can tell us, which he hasn’t yet. Just to be part of the team. Not just like football — if you’re not eligible they discard you off to the side. He’s a big part of this team.”   [Dusty Baker advocates for more African Americans in MLB leadership positions]   Revere played two and a half seasons with the Phillies and tied for the league lead in hits there in 2014. He did not play against the Phillies after being traded to Toronto late last season and is therefore still waiting to play his first game at his old home park. Since he cannot play tonight, Michael A. Taylor will continue filling in as the leadoff man and center fielder. Taylor is hitting .138 this season, struggling after a torrid spring training. Baker gave him a day off Thursday. He said Taylor used it to hit, for almost the whole game, something he would not have been able to do if he were playing. “It usually takes about 24 hours for your body to memorize the act of doing it right,” said Baker, who said he hopes Taylor will be more aggressive in the strike zone in his return to the lineup. Often, he said, slumping hitters take the best pitches to hit and swing at the questionable ones. “You tend not to be as aggressive I think,” Baker said. “It’s like I tell my son: When in doubt, attack that fastball.”