 Robert Griffin III on Josh Gordon: ‘You can not tell a grown man what to do’ - The Washington Post
When Robert Griffin III signed with the Cleveland Browns in March, it should have served as a reunion with Josh Gordon, his friend and former teammate at Baylor. Instead, Gordon is in NFL limbo, serving a suspension for multiple substance-abuse violations, one that will continue indefinitely after his application for reinstatement was rejected by the league last week.   [Josh Gordon denied reinstatement by NFL, can reapply later in the year]   Griffin has kept in touch with the Browns wide receiver and wants to help, but he said Thursday that he understands there’s only so much he can do. “I hope he understands the situation that he’s in and what’s at stake and I think he does, but it’s up to him ultimately to make that decision,” the quarterback said at a press conference (via cleveland.com). “You can not tell a grown man what to do,” Griffin added. Gordon was denied reinstatement following reports of another failed test for marijuana, a problem that has dogged him since college. He reportedly can re-apply on Aug. 1, and in the meantime, the NFL wants to see a prolonged stretch where the wide receiver not only passes drug tests but generally shows that he is serious about football. It can’t be helping Gordon that he has recently been linked repeatedly with Johnny Manziel, the ex-Browns quarterback who is currently a poster boy for how to throw away a promising career. Gordon was identified at a party where a Los Angeles house Manziel rented was trashed, and he reportedly picked the quarterback up after Manziel fled the scene of a car crash on Sunset Boulevard.   [Manziel reportedly picked up by Gordon after hit-and-run incident]   Over the weekend, the pair were spotted together at the Coachella music festival. Gordon can be seen behind Manziel in the photo below. Johnny Manziel at #Coachella. Looks like he hasn't seen a gym in months. pic.twitter.com/Vg4IHdHRxf — Mike Welch (@RealMikeWelch) April 19, 2016  “Josh is family, so I’ve had contact with Josh since the announcement and he knows, I’m sure he’ll see this or watch this, he knows I’m always there for him no matter what happens, but I’m rooting for him,” Griffin said Thursday. “All you can do is be there for him and try to help guide him, so I’ve been there for him, will continue to be there for him, and I hope he makes the right decisions so he can get back in the league and show everybody what he’s really made of,” Griffin added. In addition to their friendship, Griffin has football-related reasons to want to see Gordon back on the Browns. In 2013, the wide receiver’s second season, he led the NFL with 1,646 yards, adding nine touchdowns on 87 catches. However, he was suspended for a total of 11 games the following season, sat out 2015 altogether and is in danger of having his indefinite suspension continue through another season.   [Robert Griffin III takes his first snaps with the Browns]  