 What a Rockets upset of the Warriors looks like - The Washington Post
Steph Curry and the Golden State Warriors continue their historic pursuit of an NBA title on Saturday night when they face the Houston Rockets at Oracle Arena. The Warriors were 10.4 points per game better than the average team after adjusting their margin of victory for strength of schedule — the sixth highest mark in NBA history — and set an all-time record for shooting efficiency (56.3 effective field goal percentage). Curry, the reigning MVP, took his game to a whole new level, breaking his own record for three-point shot attempts en route to becoming the first player in league history to make more than 400 shots from beyond the arc. The Rockets, meanwhile, failed to outscore their opponents during the regular season (minus-0.2 net rating) and ranked among the bottom 10 teams in the league in three of the games four key factors: effective field goal against (51.6 percent), defensive rebound percentage (72.8 percent) and free throw rate (21.9 percent of opponents shots were from the free throw line). They ranked second in defensive turnover rate (14.7 percent), the fourth key metric.   [Steph Curry has become a human exclamation mark]   Overall, the Warriors have an 84 percent chance at moving past the Rockets in the first round, but that leaves a 16 percent chance we see an upset. Jake Westrich, digitial content coordinator at WhatIfSports, pulled all the box scores from their Warriors-Rockets simulations and after averaging together the wins and losses, here are the keys to a Rockets victory: James Harden continues to be their best offensive player Harden became the fourth player in NBA history to average 29 points, seven assists and six rebounds per game in a season, joining Michael Jordan, Oscar Robertson and LeBron James in this exclusive club. He ranked 15th in ESPN’s real plus-minus, which adjusts a player’s net point differential per 100 possessions for teammates and opponents, and can score while handling the ball in the pick and roll as easily as he can in man-to-man situations.  Harden led the teams in points (29) and assists (7.5) per game and sees comparable numbers in first-round simulations where the Rockets beat the Warriors (27 points and 8.1 assists per game).   [The hidden price Steph Curry pays for making the impossible look effortless]   Make their three-point shots Houston was dreadful from beyond the arc in its simulated losses, shooting just 29.6 percent on three-pointers. Trevor Ariza and Patrick Beverley were the biggest contributors. They hit an average of 40.8 percent of their three-point shots in the victories but the duo faltered to 34.6 percent in the losses. They shot 37.1 and 40 percent respectively, from three-point range during the regular season.  Rockets can’t allow Warriors to get comfortable behind three-point line Golden State, like most teams, is more accurate if it gets open looks. For example, if the closest defender was more than six feet away, the Warriors hit 43.5 percent of their shots from three-point range. That dropped to 36.9 percent if a defender was within four feet. In the simulations in which the Warriors won, they shot 41.4 percent from three — compared with 35.6 percent in the losses. Beverley will be the key player for Houston. When he is on the court opponents shoot just 36 percent from long rage. On spot-up possessions — which Golden State runs most often in the half court — Beverley holds opponents to an effective field goal percentage of 45.7 percent when he is the primary defender, nearly nine points lower than the Warriors averaged this season (56.1 eFG%). Don’t give Golden State too many extra possessions The Rockets were the worst team at grabbing defensive rebounds. The Warriors, meanwhile, scored a league-high 112.5 points per 100 possessions, so the last thing they need are extra possessions. Dwight Howard has to improve on the defensive boards. He grabbed 8.4 defensive rebounds per game but just 21.1 percent of all contested rebounds, the third lowest among the 24 players with at least 10 rebound chances per game during the regular season. Houston also turned the ball over 15.9 times per game, fifth highest in the league, allowing the third-most number of points off turnovers per game (19.5). No one said this was going to be easy, but if the Rockets want to maximize their chances at keeping their playoff hopes alive, it is going to take almost everything going their way during this seven-game series.