 The Yankees bullpen is already crushing batters, and it’s about to get better - The Washington Post
The dominance of New York relievers Dellin Betances and Andrew Miller is far from a secret and their success has been well documented since they joined the Yankees. But what makes these two relievers so dominant in their craft? Betances hurls a 96- to 97-mph fastball that hitters must respect.  He commands it well inside of the strike zone at a 55.3 percent career rate and induced whiffs on 12.2 percent of the heaters he threw in 2015.  His usage of the pitch, however, has dwindled each season of his major league career, dropping down to just 43.7 percent this season.  And it’s all because of his knuckle-curveball.  Among all types of curveballs in 2015, Betances’s earned the highest pitch value by saving a whopping 14.7 runs with the pitch – nearly four points higher than Yusmeiro Petit’s second-place hook. But what is interesting about this year’s model is his ability to generate awkward moments for hitters like the one above to Jose Bautista.  Take a look at his heat map for knuckle-curves this season:  Given that curveballs have a good amount of glove-side break, pitchers generally locate the ball on the outer half of the plate.  Betances has shifted his approach this year, locating his hook down and inside to right-handed batters instead.  The result is the gif above, deceiving one of the better hitters in the game in Bautista.  Imagine the scenario: Bautista is geared up for Betances’s high-90s heat and as Betances releases the ball, he sees a pitch en route to his head.  As Bautista begins to maneuver out of the way, the ball suddenly changes direction, gliding back over the plate for a strike.  It’s incredibly effective, and if Betances can stun an all-star slugger in Bautista, it’s easy to comprehend his dominance with the rest of the league.  Batters are hitting just .056 off the pitch, striking out 78.9 percent of the time, and hold a 100 percent infield flyball rate.  No wonder Betances holds an eye-popping 21.86 strikeouts per nine innings pitched. After enduring Betances for a futile inning, teams are met with an equally daunting task in facing Miller.  In many ways he’s the opposite of Betance – Miller is a lefty with a closed landing, whipping his entire body toward the plate horizontally as his arm angle can release the ball from behind left-handed batters.  There is one major similarity, though. Miller has one heck of a breaking ball, too.  While Betances had the highest curveball pitch value last season, Miller had the most effective slider (14.5 pVal), despite spending more than a month on the disabled list. The pitch held a 25.8 percent whiff rate last year as batters chased it out of the zone more than half the time. The crazy thing is the pitch is even better this season. Here’s a table displaying the horizontal movement Miller’s slider has featured since 2013. Miller has clearly gained horizontal movement through the years, though he made the jump of nearly two inches from last season to April 2016. His slider currently gets 6.09 inches of horizontal bend, which is just less than five inches more than the MLB average of 1.1 inches for lefty sliders. The result is staggering: an unheard of 32 percent swinging strike rate, a 71.4 percent swing rate on pitches outside of the zone, and a contact rate of only 38.5 percent. It’s tough find a better pitch in baseball, making Miller’s frames a moment of relaxation for Yankee fans. The Betances and Miller tandem is so effective it’s laughable at times. They are currently the only two pitchers in baseball with both negative FIP and xFIP rates, meaning their pitching is so good their expected ERA should be lower than zero. The 2015 Yankees featured arguably the best bullpen in the majors with two of the most dominating relievers in all of baseball last season, and their 2016 iterations look even better. But wait, there’s more.  The Yankees will add Aroldis Chapman to their bullpen on May 9. His heater is so fast that there is an “Aroldis filter” in the Statcast leader board for fastest pitches of 2015.  Chapman is no stranger to strikeouts as well, featuring strikeout per nine marks above 15 each season since 2012 — topping out at an absurd 17.7 per nine in 2014. His famous fastball leads the charge with a career swinging strike rate of 16.5 percent mixed in with a slider that misses bats 22.9 percent of the time. The Yankees bullpen has cruised through the opening weeks featuring one of the best curveballs in the game, one of the best sliders in the game, and will add one of the best fastballs in the game in just over two weeks. Good luck everyone else. All stats courtesy of FanGraphs and Brooks Baseball, all GIFs courtesy of Pitcher List. Nick Pollack writes for PitcherList.com and can be found making an excessive amount of Pitching GIFs on Twitter @ThePitcherList