 Ray Allen signed with ‘Jordan Brand’ as a rookie. Then the shoe requests began. - The Washington Post
Ray Allen wore his fair share of sneakers during his 18-year tenure in the NBA. All of them were Jordan Brand. That’s because a 21-year-old Allen signed with Michael Jordan’s then-new brand in 1996, shortly after turning pro and being drafted fifth overall, making him among the first athletes sponsored by the Nike subsidiary. And boy were those shoes coveted by NBA players. Allen, who spoke to high school players participating in Friday’s Jordan Brand Classic at the Barclays Center, told SLAM Magazine that players on other teams used to ask him for shoes after every game. He didn’t take exception to it, calling it “an honor,” even if they were trying to get the ones he had just played in. “Guys were asking me if they could get a pair, if I could send a pair to their locker room, if they could get the pair on my feet,” Allen said. “I’ve had guys that couldn’t find the shoes, so they wanted the ones I had to wear,” he said. “And then I had guys that wanted to auction them off for charity. It was always an honor, knowing that they were asking me, because I always felt like they held me in a high regard. That’s how I looked at [Michael Jordan].” Allen, whose shoe closet has been the focus of intrigue in the past, called signing with Jordan as a rookie a “no-brainer.” It proved serendipitous for brand and athlete, as both ascended in prominence in the following decades, with Allen sporting a pair of Air Jordan 13s in the 1998 movie “He Got Game” and other versions during 10 All-Star Game appearances. “I made a gamble when I was 21,” Allen said. “I had a few contracts on the table, including one with another shoe company. I had to make a choice between two shoe companies. The other shoe company threw out all these criteria. Me and a few people on my team asked amongst ourselves, if I’m a great NBA player, which company would I want to be a part of? And then Nike came and said, ‘Jordan is starting his own line and we’d love to introduce you as one of the new players to be a part of it.’ It was a no-brainer for me, just to be able to be associated with Nike, and then Jordan on top of that. I didn’t know what it was going to be like, but I was in. “Being a part of it was incredible, because every player wanted to wear the shoes that I’ve worn. Even before I started wearing retros. My first couple years, I had shoes that everyone wanted, and the gear was different. Then when I started wearing retros in Seattle and Boston, that’s all other players ever talked about. It was always special for me.” The interviewer also asked about Allen’s feelings about Kobe Bryant retiring — “It was such a great ride” — and whether Steph Curry as leapfrogged Allen as the greatest shooter in NBA history. “Based on what he’s done, I think he has to be — he’s on his way to being the best ever,” Allen said. “It’s always arguable, based on who’s telling the story. One thing I always tell people is, it’s hard to compare generations. Everybody has something or somebody that makes him feel special about the game, or the way they saw and the way they appreciate the game.”