 Maryland women’s lacrosse rides defense in dominant win over Virginia - The Washington Post
Virginia goalie Rachel Vander Kolk desperately looked for an open teammate to clear the ball to, but that option simply didn’t exist at one point in the middle of the first half of Wednesday night’s game against Maryland. She retreated around her own net and frantically ran around stranded for nearly a minute as the top-ranked Terrapins — flexing their defensive muscle in full — smothered all outlet passing options. Vander Kolk finally did the only sensible thing and brought the ball out herself, running about 20 yards before tossing a desperation heave down the field. It was easily picked off by Maryland and taken the other way, eventually leading to what seemed like another routine score in a 17-6 win over the 14th-ranked Cavaliers. For as much as Maryland (15-0) again showed the offensive juggernaut that it is — sophomore Megan Whittle scored five goals and freshman Jen Giles added her first career hat trick — this latest dismantling was built on the back of a dominant defensive performance that began in the opening minutes. Virginia finished with just two shots on goal and committed 10 turnovers in the first half alone, falling into an 8-1 halftime hole. For Maryland, which entered the night ranked fifth nationally in total defense, it marked the fourth time this season — including performances against Hofstra, Princeton and North Carolina — that it has held an opponent to just one goal in the first half. “Especially in the first half, our defense really propelled us through and gave us that big lead that we were able to maintain in the second half,” said Maryland junior Zoe Stukenberg, who finished with two goals. The two-time defending national champions continued to build traction with the win, which marked the 50th consecutive victory at the Field Hockey and Lacrosse Complex in College Park. Maryland hasn’t lost at home since March 10, 2012, and there was no chance of it happening Wednesday, despite the fact that Virginia entered the game having won four of its last five and was coming off a 10-9 overtime win over No. 5 Louisville last weekend. Whittle, who has now registered 53 goals this season, had four goals in the first half alone. Alongside Giles’ three goals, Maryland also received three goals from senior Bryn Boucher as the Terrapins outshot the Cavaliers 32-14. Virginia also committed 27 fouls to Maryland’s 12. Two-time Tewaaraton Trophy winner Taylor Cummings, who is already considered one of the best players in NCAA history and is poised to lead Maryland to a third consecutive national title next month, also added two scores in the first half. For as much has she has carried the team in all facets this spring, gaudy offensive numbers weren’t needed from the senior star. She picked up her second yellow card with about 27 minutes remaining in the game and was forced to watch from the sideline for the rest of the night — but Maryland showed it’s depth and ability to adjust in the back end. “It’s never happened before. That’s never happened in her career, period,” Maryland Coach Cathy Reese said of Cummings’s second penalty. “That was a challenge that we had to figure out and come through, and I think we saw players really step up and take charge.” Cummings has been lauded for her improved defensive production from her junior to senior season. She entered the night not only leading Maryland in points, ground balls and draw controls, but also caused turnovers (35) — but she was again just one piece of the collective defensive effort Wednesday. When Maryland fell shorthanded after Cummings came off for her first yellow card in the first half, the Terrapins defense didn’t fold — Virginia struggled to get a clean look at the net, and when it did, the ball hit the post and was scooped up by Maryland to begin another offensive possession. Even with a little luck, the defensive unit has been rebuilt and retooled after returning just two starters from last season. It has a centerpiece in senior all-American Alice Mercer, who has helped the unit hold opponents to just 6.36 goals per game entering Wednesday’s game. Maryland has also found reliable production from a host of new faces, including freshman defender Julia Braig (15 starts in 2015) and freshman goalkeeper Megan Taylor, who had five saves Wednesday. Maryland has not allowed more than nine goals in a game this season. “Our D, they’re playing great right now. I think they’re having fun. They’re just working together really well right now, and that’s where we want to be at this point in the season,” Reese said.