 Fatal flaws: The reason your favorite NBA team won’t win a championship - The Washington Post
The quest for an NBA title starts on Saturday with the Golden State Warriors having a good chance to defend their title. They won 73 games, an NBA record, and were the best shooting team in NBA history, posting an effective field goal percentage of 56.2 percent. Teams this good don’t have many flaws, but the Warriors did lose nine games this season, showing that nobody’s perfect. Two types of plays gave Golden State trouble on defense, with “trouble” being relative for a team that allowed the fourth fewest points per 100 possessions (100.9) this season. The first were plays in transition, where opponents scored 52.5 percent of the time. Stephen Curry and the rest of the Warriors don’t allow turnovers often, but when they do it could lead to easy baskets on the other side.  The second soft spot in Golden State’s defense occurs when the ball handler makes a pass off the pick and roll. Those plays yielded 1.06 points per possession — the fifth most in the NBA — on 54.6 percent shooting.  Even with these flaws, FiveThirtyEight gives the Warriors the highest chances to win the NBA title (42 percent). The rest of the league won’t be as lucky. Here is why your favorite team will also fall short. (Note: Previous versions of this post simply had “They are not the Warriors” for each team’s fatal flaw. My editors asked me to go a little more in depth.) Eastern Conference Cleveland Cavaliers LeBron James and the Cavs had no problem putting points on the board, scoring the third-highest points per 100 possessions during the regular season (110.9 per Basketball Reference). But what is a concern is their ability to shoot the ball. Over the past 10 years only one NBA champion, the 2010 Lakers, won a title after shooting less 46 percent during the regular season. The Cavs are right at the 46 percent mark. Toronto Raptors Defense is an issue. The Raptors allowed 105.2 points per 100 possessions with an effective field goal percentage allowed of 49.8 percent, both higher than league average. They have struggled the most against catch-and-shoot and catch-and-drive plays, which produce 1.01 points per possession for the opposition. Per Synergy Sports, DeMar DeRozan is the team’s worst defender in these instances, allowing a robust 1.1 points per possession with an eFG% against of 57.8 percent. Atlanta Hawks The Hawks have a few fatal flaws. They don’t score enough points for a eventual NBA champion. Atlanta scores 105.1 per 100 possessions and the lowest total by a champion in the past 10 years is 106.6 by the Heat in 2012. The Hawks also do not get to the line often enough — just 18.4 percent of their shot attempts come at the free throw line, the second lowest rate in the NBA this season. Atlanta also grabs the lowest share of offensive rebounds (19.1 percent), causing them to be frequently limited to one shot at the basket before having to turn on their heels the other way. Miami Heat Once an offensive juggernaut, the Heat now produces a below-average number of points (106.2 offensive rating), putting its title hopes in doubt. Since 2006, only one champion (2012 Heat) produced fewer than 107 points per 100 possessions. The 2012 version had the big three of James, Dwayne Wade and Chris Bosh to strike fear into the hearts of opponents. This year’s iteration still has Wade, but James is back home in Cleveland and Bosh is out with a recurrence of blood clots in his left calf, leaving Hassan Whiteside, Luol Deng and Goran Dragic to pick up the slack. Boston Celtics Like the Cavaliers, the Celtics, with a 49.8 eFG%, are simply not a good enough shooting team to make a title run. Nine of the last 10 champions have all shot better than 50 percent. Charlotte Hornets The question is not could the Hornets win a title, it’s how they heck did they make the playoffs with the fifth-worst field goal percentage this season (43.7 percent).  Al Jefferson in particular is a drain on the offense: 182 of his 490 attempts were from midrange, the least efficient shots on the court.  Detroit Pistons Stan Van Gundy got his team to the playoffs despite scoring less than a point per 100 possessions more than they allowed. The worst net rating by a champion over the last 10 years was the 2005-06 Miami Heat (plus-4.2). Still not convinced? Opponents had a 50.4 eFG% against Detroit this season, higher than any of the previous 10 champions. Indiana Pacers To be successful in today’s NBA you have to be efficient at running the pick and roll. The Pacers rank 19th for points per possession when the ball handler takes the shot and 25th when it’s the roll man. That, coupled with an eFG% less than 50 percent should leave them heading home early this postseason. Western Conference San Antonio Spurs The Spurs allowed the fewest points per 100 possessions (96.6) and were in the top 10 at defending most plays you’d find on the court. However, there were two play types against which San Antonio was just middle of the pack: hand offs and man to man. Point guard Tony Parker, at 33 years old, isn’t as spry as he used to be, leaving him especially vulnerable to both types of plays.  Oklahoma City Thunder The worst defensive performance by an eventual NBA champion over the past 10 years has been the 2009 Lakers, who allowed 104.7 points per 100 possessions. This year’s Thunder allowed 105.6 with a high of 109.4 during February.  Los Angeles Clippers The Clippers are bad at grabbing rebounds, especially on the offensive glass (20.1 percent, third lowest in the NBA). That would set a new low for recent champions, besting both the 2014 Spurs (22.7 percent) and 2013 Heat (22.2 percent). You could argue that the importance of offensive rebounds has diminished in recent years, but the Clippers first-round matchup is against the Portland Trail Blazers, who own the league’s third highest offensive rebounding rate (25.9 percent), so it could become a factor sooner rather than later.  Portland Trail Blazers The Blazers may be good on the offensive glass, but they still aren’t a solid defensive team. They allowed the ninth most points per 100 possessions (105.6) and surrendered the fourth highest rate of three-point shots in the NBA (37.1 percent).  Memphis Grizzlies Where do we start? The Grizzlies are one of the worst shooting teams in the NBA (47.7 eFG%) that also has one of the worst defenses (51.8 eFG% against). And not only is the defense bad, it is undisciplined, sending opponents to the line at the highest rate in the league.  Dallas Mavericks Which Mavericks team will we see in the playoffs? Is it the team that scored 111.1 points per 100 possessions in February or the one that scored 101.3 points per 100 in November? Is it the team from April, that had a defensive rating of 97.7, or the one from March that was at 109.2? What about Dirk Nowitzki? The 37-year-old started slowing down at the end of the season, and shot 34.2 percent in his last 10 games. Since he uses a team high 25.5 percent of possessions, if he continues his swoon in the playoffs things could quickly get ugly for the Mavs. Houston Rockets Like the Pistons, the Rockets allowed more points than they scored and were 0.34 points per game better than average after adjusting their margin of victory for strength of schedule. Of the 29 other teams in the past decade who reached the playoffs with a mark as good or worse than Hosuton’s adjusted scoring margin, none made it past the second round of the playoffs. Two-thirds never made it past the first round.