 Maryland’s Trey Edmunds has a ‘clean slate’ after transferring from Virginia Tech - The Washington Post
Trey Edmunds’s decision to transfer from Virginia Tech to Maryland earlier this spring had little to do with his father’s legacy in College Park, which is commemorated with a giant black-and-white portrait on a concrete wall on the visitor’s side of the team’s stadium. Ferrell Edmunds has long been enshrined as one of the best players in school history, a former tight end who starred at Maryland for four seasons before becoming a third round pick by the Miami Dolphins in 1988. “Of course I’ve heard the stories about my father and the accomplishments he had,” Trey Edmunds said. “There is not one day that goes by that I don’t hear anything good about my father. I look at that as, he must’ve left some type of good legacy here at Maryland.”   [Maryland kicker Adam Greene working toward filling void left by Brad Craddock]   But Edmunds has never felt overshadowed, largely because he chose to go a different route when he made his college decision four years ago. Trey Edmunds decided to attend Virginia Tech after a standout prep career at Dan River High School in Danville, Va., and after redshirting as a freshman in 2012, he broke out the following season with 675 rushing yards and 10 touchdowns the following season. But Edmunds’s career in Blacksburg was marked by several health issues, and he struggled to establish himself as the feature back for much of the next three seasons. He suffered a leg injury to close out 2013, a collarbone injury in 2014 and limited playing time in 2015, where he was left to wonder what else he could offer in his college career. He was never a die-hard Maryland fan growing up, more a general college football fan than anything else, but the school seemed like a natural fit when he was looking to choose as a graduate transfer in January. He was intrigued by the chance to bolster a Maryland backfield under DJ Durkin’s new staff, which have ensured all players a clean slate during spring practice over the past six weeks. “No one knows anything about anybody. Players don’t know anything about the coaches, coaches don’t know anything about the players. Everybody is just working towards one goal, and the one goal is to win games,” Edmunds said. It has reinvigorated Edmunds, who brings 32 games of experience at Virginia Tech to a Maryland backfield that all of the sudden looks crowded despite the departure of graduated senior Brandon Ross and the ongoing indefinite suspension of junior Wes Brown.   [Andy Buh, a late replacement on Maryland’s staff, wastes no time]   Brown has been taking part in team drills and has stood out at times, but it remains unclear what his status will be for the fall. Edmunds is automatically the most experienced running back on the roster. Sophomore Ty Johnson is the position’s speed merchant – he is the team’s leading returner in rushing with 250 yards as a freshman – and true freshman Jake Funk (Damascus) is expected to contribute right away. “Each day, day in and day out, practice and even meeting days, you have to bring it. It’s like a job. The only thing is, we’re not getting paid,” Edmunds said. “Regardless of age, experience, none of that stuff matters. We’re all here for a reason. We can all play the position. We’re all good football players.” The 6-foot-2, 223-pound Edmunds has had to adjust to three different offenses in college – two in Blacksburg and Walt Bell’s up-tempo scheme that is currently being installed in College Park – but his primary strengths remain making defenders miss in space and bowling over defenders in short yardage situations. He’s also remained healthy throughout camp, relying on durability that was galvanized by two serious injuries earlier in his career. Edmunds was a force at times during Maryland’s open practice on Tuesday, when Durkin had to shift his players from the sloppy practice fields to the stadium because of steady rain throughout the morning. It was a welcome move for Edmunds. He has developed a tendency to look up at the visiting concourse at the stadium to catch a glimpse of his father’s picture, he said. It has given him strength as he begins his final year of college football, where he’s looking to show the same kind of brilliance he once did as a young redshirt freshman with the Hokies. “He doesn’t really like to use the word pressure,” Edmunds said of his father. “He feels that regardless of what he did, we’re different.”