 Five takeaways from Maryland’s Red-White spring game - The Washington Post
Maryland wrapped up its first spring under DJ Durkin with Saturday’s Red-White game, and Red (defense) coming out on top with a 51-35 win over White (offense). Durkin’s format for the game allowed the defense to accumulate points with turnovers and stops, although the scrimmage centered around players earning final reps after 14 practices over the past six weeks.  Here are a few storylines that unfolded on a sun-soaked afternoon in College Park:  The offense is going to push the pace. That much has been promised by Durkin and new offensive coordinator Walt Bell over the past four months, and it was on display Saturday afternoon. The unit ran 97 plays and averaged 6.7 per clip, and while Bell didn’t unveil his entire system, the spread attack ran with an up-tempo no-huddle pace for much of the afternoon. Maryland’s offense scored on touchdowns of 48, 51, 64, 40 and 65 yards, the last of which went on a pitch and catch from junior quarterback Caleb Rowe to wide receiver Jacquille Veii over the middle. Rowe, who split reps with the first team offense, finished 7-of-16 for 161 yards and two touchdowns. Perry Hills also looked improved, completing 14-of-25 for 102 yards and one touchdown, a 40-yard strike to Malcolm Culmer (four catches, 68 yards) in the second quarter. Senior Levern Jacobs, who worked mostly with the second team offense while Culmer, Taivon Jacobs and D.J. Moore started with the first team and caught five passes for 112 yards and two touchdowns.   [Terrapins display big-play capability during Red-White game]   The defense is catching up. Durkin noted that he devoted much of his attention to his defense over the past two weeks, a product of the sudden resignation of Scott Shafer two weeks ago. He found a quick and quality replacement in new defensive coordinator Andy Buh, and he was encouraged by how the unit performed in its final showing of the spring. The defense was aggressive and brought pressure often (12 sacks, 20 tackles for loss), and despite missing a few key playmakers such as senior cornerback Will Likely and junior linebacker Abner Logan, the group took another step toward installing Durkin and Buh’s new 3-4 scheme on Saturday. A few statistical standouts: cornerback Tene Samuto (6.5 tackles, 1.5 sacks), defensive end Roman Braglio (four sacks) and defensive end Chandler Burkett three sacks, four tackles for loss). The backfield is crowded. Maryland junior running back Wes Brown started with the first unit, but the entire group got plenty of work and should engage in a fierce competition for playing time once fall camp commences in June. Saturday’s standout was sophomore Ty Johnson, who showed his top-end speed with a 64-yard touchdown run the first half and finishing with 167 yards on 11 carries. Brown (seven carries, 37 yards) and Virginia Tech transfer Trey Edmunds (eight carries, 26 yards) are the two elder statesmen in the backfield, but expect true freshman Jake Funk to contribute right away. Funk, the former Damascus star who enrolled early in January, received the most carries (15) and finished with 46 yards. Here’s footage of Johnson’s long scoring run: Truth: Ty Johnson can run, and run very well for @umterps. https://t.co/Jdbdt2MxhN — Maryland On BTN (@MarylandOnBTN) April 16, 2016  The roster remains healthy. Durkin’s primary objective on Saturday was to get each player some time in the scrimmage and remain healthy across the board. Maryland accomplished both. While players like Abner Logan and defensive tackle David Shaw didn’t participate, Likely was at least able to field punts while he continues to recover from a shoulder injury that kept him limited throughout the spring. And while Durkin did not identify any significant injuries Saturday, he could also revel in the fact that plenty of young players earned quality time. That included players like Funk, junior defensive back Antwaine Carter (one interception) and freshman defensive tackle Adam McLean, the former Quince Orchard star who just re-enrolled this winter after an academic issue kept him out last fall. McLean, who Durkin earlier this week credited with coming on late in spring practice, finished with three tackles and nearly had an interception on a screen early in the fourth quarter. Maryland picks up another commitment. The team’s staff celebrated the end of spring practice with news of another class of 2017 commitment on Saturday night. It comes from McDonogh offensive lineman Jordan McNair, a 6-foot-5, 285-pound four-star prospect who chose the Terrapins over Ohio State, among others. Blessed to say that I am fully committed to the University of Maryland #TERP'N💯🐢🐢🔴⚫️〽️ pic.twitter.com/Q63cB6BW4f — Jordan McNair (@Seven__Zer0) April 16, 2016  247sports.com currently ranks McNair as the sixth-rated overall 2017 prospect in the state of Maryland. The pledge comes on the heels of three significant commitments last weekend, which included IMG Academy defensive tackle Cam Spence, St. John’s quarterback Kasim Hill and Good Counsel linebacker Ayinde Eley.